there's good news and bad news about mulan . 
the positive is that disney has found a happy medium between the heavy-handedness of pocahontas and the hunchback of notre dame and the childishness of hercules . 
on the other hand , the studio is pulling out all the stops on plot cliches and cheap laughs , several steps down from the days of the little mermaid and beauty and the beast . 
but mulan is a step in the right direction and disney's best animated feature since the lion king . 
after giving native americans a turn in pocahontas , disney has decided to turn a movie over to the asians . 
mulan is set in feudal china and features the ever-popular heroine who marches to a different drum and wants to do more with her life than get married . 
that's what we find out when young mulan ( voice of ming- na wen ) screws up her appointment with the matchmaker by letting a rogue cricket splash coffee all over her . 
cartoons . . . 
meanwhile , word comes from the emporer that one man from every family must join the army and help fight the huns . 
since mulan's a girl , that means her decrepit old father must go . 
she pleads with the soldiers to have mercy on dear old dad , but that kind of groveling and desperation brings shame on her family . 
that's chinese culture for you . . . 
so imagine how embarrassed the family is the next day when they find mulan has stolen her father's uniform and sword and run off to join the army in his place . 
the movie in a nutshell is about the stuggles of being a woman in the army . 
it should have been called g . i . 
chang . 
mulan calls on her ancestors for help . 
they decide to summon the large stone dragon in the backyard to protect her , but a mini dragon named mushu screws it up . 
voiced by eddie murphy , mushu continues the tradition of cute talking animal sidekicks who do more slapstick harm than good for their human charges . 
murphy's performance is a direct descendent of robin williams in aladdin -- lots of wisecracks and ad-libs and even an introductory song about how much fun they're going to have . 
you ain't never had a friend like mushu . 
speaking of songs , mulan doesn't have too many of them , which is a plus with a story like this . 
disney songs about war probably wouldn't go over too well ( " heigh ho , heigh ho , it's off to war i go . . . " ) , and the ones they do have aren't memorable . 
the best of the bunch , sad to say , is " be a man , " the requisite basic training montage song . 
yes , even in medieval china , they had to run through that web of car tires before they were ready for battle . 
sung by donnie osmond ( a bad sign if ever there was one ) , " be a man " accompanies footage of mulan's platoon going from screw-ups to heroes . 
it makes me wonder , has there ever been a musical montage in a movie that's ended badly ? 
i only wish real-life problems could be solved in two minutes with a peppy montage . 
for the curious , mulan does pass for a man in the army despite looking like a girl . 
all she does to transform herself is cut her hair to a sexy shoulder-length , talk macho and slap guys on the butt , as was male custom a thousand years ago in china . 
the deception fools everyone but the audience , who thinks she might be able to pass for a 12-year-old boy , at best . 
but she does manage to strike the biggest blows to the hun army , led by a big , evil-eyed attilla-looking monster . 
as a villain , the head of the huns is menacing , evil and entirely forgettable . 
i saw the movie yesterday and i don't remember the man's name . 
otherwise , mulan is a good movie . 
the animation of the characters themselves isn't as rich as it could and should be , but there are some amazing battlefield shots . 
eddie murphy pulls off some good one-liners , as do other star voices like harvey fierstein and pat morita , the quintessential asian movie star . 
hell , george " mr . sulu " takei does a voice in mulan . 
you get the sense disney said to themselves , " alright , let's get out there and find us some chinese americans in hollywood . 
who can you think of ? " 
 " well , there's mr . myagi . . . " 
 " good . " 
 " and mr . sulu . " 
 " perfect . 
we've got ourselves a movie now . " 
soon disney really _will_ be able to paint with all the colors of the wind . 

there's more to a quilt than fabric and thread--each patchwork design has its own unique story ( or stories ) to tell . 
in how to make an american quilt , the first hollywood release from australian director jocelyn moorhouse ( proof ) , we come to understand how the tales of the seven makers imbue their creation with passion and vitality . 
all the sorrows , joys , longings , sufferings , and loves of these women are sewn into their quilt and , as their bittersweet memories are given expression , one young woman applies these lessons of the past to her own uncertain future . 
motion pictures are filled with male bonding rituals ; how to make an american quilt presents a distinctly feminine alternative . 
the " quilting bee " consists of seven members : sisters gladys ( ann bancroft ) and hy ( ellen burstyn ) ; sophia ( lois smith ) , a woman known for frightening children ; emma ( jean simmons ) , the timid wife of a perpetually unfaithful man ; constance ( kate nelligan ) , who has been having an affair with emma's husband ; anna ( maya angelou ) , the leader of the group ; and marianna ( alfre woodard ) , anna's daughter . 
the project they're busy with is the wedding quilt for hy's granddaughter , finn ( winona ryder ) , who has just become engaged . 
she's spending the summer with hy and gladys , and away from her fiance , to decide whether a lifelong commitment is really what she wants , and whether it's better to marry a friend or a lover . 
one of the greatest pleasures of how to make an american quilt comes from watching an array of fine performances by an impressive ensemble cast . 
from winona ryder , ann bancroft , ellen burstyn , and maya angelou to minor players like rip torn , claire danes , and kate capshaw , this film is overflowing with realized talent . 
the performances are good enough , in fact , to cover up many of the script's weaknesses . 
how to make an american quilt is basically an unremarkable , if affecting , tale of love across the generations--a sort of truncated american version of the joy luck club , with a dash of fried green tomatoes added . 
there are probably too many characters . 
so , instead of really getting to know a few of them , we are presented with quick glimpses into a single defining event in each of their lives . 
we learn about the root of the smoldering resentment between gladys and hy , and are told the reasons why emma stays with her husband and sophia is so irascible . 
there are other episodes as well : the love of anna's life , marianna's soul mate , and a look at the reasons why constance entered into an affair with her friend's husband . 
the sum total of these tales is meant to provide the framework for finn's story : whether to go forward with her marriage or dally with a hunky stranger . 
there is no emotional epiphany in how to make an american quilt . 
the stories are all well-told , but it's difficult to really connect with the characters--their moments pass so quickly . 
while we certainly feel something for each of the eight principals , our emotional investment is tenuous . 
there isn't enough depth to pull the viewer in all the way , and many of the personalities and relationships feel half- formed , like a quilt with patches missing . 
to put it bluntly , while i enjoyed watching this film , it didn't " do much " for me . 
on the whole , how to make an american quilt is a nicely-understated drama that has a lot to say about love , passion , and monogamy in relationships . 
finn's segment is by far the most compelling , because she's the focal point : her actions are shaped by everyone else's experiences . 
the other patches of this american quilt are successful only to varying degrees . 
if there's a disappointment here , it's that the script doesn't have more resonance , but the privilege of seeing such a fine cast in top form allows a viewer to enjoy this picture even if the story is somewhat conventional . 

it rocks-actually , lots of rocks fly at us or from us , in slow or fast motion , at several points in the film . 
they seem like dangerous rocks because they kind of twirl through the air instead of just propelling forward , and when they land-once in a while , when we need a break from the space sequences-they cause damage enough to destroy the chrysler building and the like . 
 ( nary a mention of these apocalyptic events is made after they occur . ) 
they also just might be the most interesting element of armageddon , a steroid user's answer to deep impact . 
bruce willis stars as harry stamper , a famed oil-driller commissioned by the white house and nasa to stop a giant asteroid before it travels beyond " zero barrier " and destroys our planet . 
why an oil driller ? 
they require someone experience with deep-core mining to plant a nuclear missile into said asteroid . 
 ( in one unintentionally ( ? ) 
hilarious sequence , nasa asks harry to inspect a deep-core driller they built based on his blueprints ; it is poorly constructed-harry criticizes almost every aspect of it . 
we trust nasa to build space shuttles ? ) 
harry assembles the obligatory " ragtag " bunch of " cowboys " , including a blond guy , a fat guy , a black guy , a wiseass , and the man who is sleeping with his daughter ( affleck ) . 
once they reach space , we experience sequence after sequence of something going wrong-perhaps the fact that they sent a bunch of nincompoops into outer space has something to do with it ; i cannot count the number of times they almost fail the mission on all my fingers and toes . 
whether or not they save the day , i will not reveal . 
nor will you care . 
i will say this : you know you're in trouble when deep impact dwarfs your asteroid movie in terms of emotion and scope . 
willis has barely a chance to come alive ; ditto for affleck . 
their big scenes are mostly reserved for the third act , in a last minute-and futile-attempt to inject warmth into the material . 
steve buscemi's character-the wiseass-is exceptionally problematic . 
 " rockhound " , as he's called , is sarcastic and foolish , so they tape him to a chair , where he spends most of the film . 
so why did they bring him up there to begin with ? 
rather , why write him into the film ? -give 
his almost-witty one-liners to serious willis , who scowls and mopes and demonstrates psychotic tendencies : at one point he chases after affleck with his shotgun for screwing his daughter , firing often and causing significant damage to his oil rig . 
i'm guessing he qualifies under nasa guidelines as someone unfit for space travel , at least in my world where the sky is blue . 
liv tyler is pretty and humourless , as always ; suspiciously , four of her father's band's ( " aerosmith " ) songs grace the soundtrack . 
director michael bay lays the visual and sound effects on thick , like ketchup , eventually drowning the movie on-screen . 
 ( the middle hour is a non-sensical , pyrotechnic assault on the average primate's brain . ) 
whenever someone dies in this movie , a crew member inevitably yells out " we lost ( insert dead person's last name here ) ! " 
i must admit that not once could i distinguish a dead oil-guy-cum-astronaut from a live one , and close-ups of the corpses' faces beneath cracked helmets provided little assistance , as their skin was often covered in fake blood . 
armageddon is not as terrible movie as godzilla . 
it looks nicer , and has fewer plot-holes within its equally ludicrous framework . 
it has a vivid soundmix . 
but at almost two-and-a-half hours , i could not believe how little actually happened over the course of the story . 
the love story has been played up in the ads , perhaps hoping to catch people before they recover from titanic-fever . 
bollocks ! 
the lovers in the film are miles apart throughout-erase all thoughts of nude sketching or car-sex and replace them with obligatory shots of liv tyler tearing up while ben affleck dicks around in a moon-crawler . 
remember a little film called jaws ? 
in this film , three independent-minded men suddenly found themselves on a fishing boat in pursuit of a deadly shark . 
they didn't much like each other at first ; eventually , they started to respect one another . 
one of jaws' great scenes involved the would-be-ahabs drinking and singing songs and telling stories . 
this is the sort of male-bonding foreign to bay or his producer , jerry bruckheimer , who throw too many characters into the mix and expect we'll care about them on the grounds that the world is about to end . 
not once do we get the feeling that these characters are even acquaintances-i'd be surprised if these actors bothered to introduce themselves to one another before " action " was called . 
a male friend who loved the film suggested to me that perhaps i cannot relate to a bunch of men who don't bare their souls , who believe in dying macho concepts like heroism and a kind of chest-beating bravery . 
to this , i will respond that the boys in armageddon are neither heroic , nor brave , nor smart , even : this team couldn't build a birdhouse . 
and if i get no respect for disliking a movie with all the synthetic feeling of a trailer-a trailer for a movie written by a team of body-builders and greeting card authors-i've never been a prouder wimp my whole life . 

ingredients : little orphan boy , rural grandparents , mountains , native american lore 
synopsis : in this loving film portrayal of an idyllic and pivotal time that a young boy spends with grandpa and grandma , the self recollections of an unseen narrator focus on his world view as a tennessee orphan boy learning of his heritage through his grandparents . 
the setting is after the first world war , during the great depression years . 
a nine-year-old orphan named little tree ( joseph ashton ) is taken in and taught the wondrous ways of the woods by his caucasian moonshiner grandpa ( james cromwell ) and his native american grandma ( tantoo cardinal ) in the wilderness of the mountains of tennessee . 
here little tree learns an almost magical appreciation for nature and farm life - - and experiences beautiful and wondrous things such as the sunrise . 
everything is miraculous to a child . 
but it all comes crashing down for the boy when the u . s . government forcibly takes custody away from grandpa and grandma , and forces little tree to attend the notched gap boarding school , a kind of internment camp where multiracial cherokee kids are indoctrinated to dress , pray , speak , and think like white people or face solitary confinement and corporeal punishment . 
through his childhood experiences , little tree learns lessons about love , race , life , death , people , nature , and folk wisdom . 
opinion : this excellent , excellent family movie . 
it is one of those priceless screen gems that nobody knows about because it's not highly advertised . 
you won't find any formula schlock , cutesy characters , canned spirituality , sequel teasers or commercial tie ins , but you will find the education of little tree to be a refreshing , impeccably acted , original , wonderful , and touching film . 
take the whole family and bring a box of tissues for the tearjerkers . 
this one's as good as old yeller . 

urban legend surprised me . 
based on the last few films the genre has produced ( including but not exclusive to the likes of i know what you did last summer , disturbing behavior and the disappointing halloween : h20 ) , i was positive that i was in store for another mildly entertaining but silly and ultimately boring rehash of the scream phenomena . 
thankfully , legend rose above it's soggy premise to become not only a hip , scary and stylish entertainment , but also what will probably become one of the best films of the year . 
you're all familiar with the plot ; a bunch of overly horny teenagers get systematically slaughtered by a masked maniac who's identity is not revealed until the closing moments of the film when it turns out to be , you guessed it ; everybody's favorite veteran of the whodunit flicks . . . the 
only person you didn't suspect ! 
however , just because legend doesn't really break any new ground as far as literary or even technical achievements go does not mean that it can't qualify as first-class entertainment . 
it was , believe it or not , one of the funnest times i've had at the movies all year . 
the thing is , i'm not really sure what made this particular stab ( pardon the pun ) at the genre seem so fresh and alive . 
maybe it was the above-par performances by the movie's two leads ( jared leto and " cybil " actress alicia witt ) . 
or , it could have been the on- target direction by jamie blanks . 
more likely , though , it was because of the inspired premise . 
i don't think i need to tell you that a killer hacking people up ala urban folklore is much more frightening than a killer fisherman . 
urban legend begins with a sequence that reminded me of the classic scream opener , not so much in plotting as in attention to detail that makes for an absolutely chilling teaser for the rest of the film . 
a pretty young coed is driving down a deserted road when ( gasp ! ) a gas problem ( hee-hee ) forces her to stop at an equally deserted gas station for a refill . 
one problem , though . 
would you want to stop at a station run by brad dourif ? 
i thought not . 
predictably , the attendant ends up coaxing her into the main building to sort out a problem with the credit card company . 
it's odd , though , when you pick up a phone to realize that nobody's on the other line . 
naturally , the potential victim escapes into her car and drives off . 
and the when we least expect it . . . whack ! ! ! 
a decapitation . 
it turns out that the creepy looking attendant was just trying to warn her about the maniac in the back seat of the car . 
so who is it this time ? 
the obvious candidate is the slightly off-kilter professor at the college the girl went to ( none other than freddy kruger himself , robert englund ) , who teaches a class on urban legends . 
a-ha . 
or could it be the fame-hungry local journalist ( leto ) looking for a meaty story to put on his resume ? 
like all movies of this nature , one of the chief pleasures is trying to guess whodunit . 
and it turns out to be , of course , the one you didn't suspect . 
i'm not going to pretend urban legend is anything more than it is , but i must give credit where credit is due . 
and this flick definitely deserves credit for being what not many other recent horror films have been . . . fun . 
 * complimentary movie ticket courtesy of valley cinemas in lodi , ca 

richard gere can be a commanding actor , but he's not always in great films . 
everything comes together here . 
gere is a big time chicago defense attorney who takes on a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even more publicity . 
it doesn't go exactly as he expects . 
gere's client , aaron ( edward norton ) , is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who is accused of brutally murdering and mutilating a catholic archbishop . 
the evidence is stacked against him . 
he was caught running from the scene covered in the bishop's blood . 
his bloody footprints are all over the murder scene . 
he has a relationship with the priest . 
gere talks to the boy , believes that he is actually innocent and sets about finding the real killer . 
despite the lawyer's proclamations that he doesn't care about the guilt of his clients and that the real thrill is gambling with people's lives , he becomes involved with aaron and is determined to free him . 
lots of complications and twists . 
the prosecuting attorney is gere's former co-worker and lover . 
they both work each other's motives to their legal advantages and it gets messy . 
her boss had major economic dealings with the archbishop that went sour and seems to have crime connections . 
aaron gets weirder and weirder as the trial goes on . 
gere's case is falling apart and he is faced with about a dozen ethical dilemmas . 
gere is exceptional as the well-dressed reserved counselor , but just once , i wanted to see him kick back and come out of his " suit " persona . 
even when he loses it , you don't see very far inside . 
norton's aaron is convincing : he comes across as the backwoods kid misplaced in the big city . 
the supporting cast does a fine job of holding together the story . 
as with most of the effective courtroom dramas , the cinematography is crisp and rich . 
the story will keep you on the edge of your seat . 
nothing is what it seems . 

some concepts seem patently hopeless from the beginning , a live-action version of mr . 
magoo being a prime example . 
the cartoon figure mr . magoo , the bumbling blind man , can be quite funny , but only in small doses and only within the confines of animated images . 
if you think naked gun star leslie nielsen is a dubious choice to play the role of the short guy who runs into walls , you are right , but there is an even more astonishing selection . 
for a director they tapped hong kong's stanley tong , whose resume consists mainly of a handful of movies featuring martial arts expert jackie chan . 
the story , such that there is one , is about a large , stolen ruby , which looks a woolworth reject . 
mr . magoo gets it and , of course , does not realize he has it . 
mayhem then ensues as the bad and the good guys chase each other with mr . magoo frequently oblivious to the fact that anyone is being chased . 
like home alone 3 but without any class , mr . 
magoo can only be described as painfully bad . 
fifteen minutes of it feels like an eternity . 
the movie's humor is pathetically lame , and the pacing is way off . 
when one is stuck in a theater for an hour and a half watching what claims to be a motion picture , one looks for some solace . 
mr . 
magoo provides only three such moments . 
the movie begins and ends with the classic cartoon version of the character , who exudes his usual charm . 
the only other saving grave in the movie itself is angus , the sweet little bulldog . 
angus demonstrates more genuine emotions and a wider acting range than any of the humans in the picture . 
finally , the ending credits contain outtakes of the movie , which have some of the genuineness and spontaneity that the movie badly lacked . 
rather than attempt to adapt mr . magoo to a non-cartoon movie , nielsen makes the strategic mistake of trying to literally be a human version of the cartoon . 
he has trouble sustaining the squinting eyes and the affected voice , and even when he does it comes off as awkwardly unfunny . 
my wife managed to get some sleep during the movie , but i was not so lucky . 
hopefully , this picture will force producers to think harder about which subjects have promise and which do not . 
mr . magoo runs 1 : 37 . 
it is rated pg for comic violence and would be acceptable for all ages . 
my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the movie was good and really funny , but recommends you not choose it if you want an action movie . 
he said he liked home alone 3 much more . 
his friend maxim , age 9 , said that he thought it was good but very silly and parts did not make sense . 
his other friend nickolas , age 8 , said he'd give the movie * * * 1/2 , but that it was really silly . 

i rented " brokedown palace " last night blind , having heard nothing about it beforehand , and i enjoyed it immensely despite some flaws . 
for anyone wishing to have the same experience i would suggest reserving judgement of the movie until viewing it in its entirety . 
that is no easy task . 
superficially , it bears an unfortunate ( and not necessarily unintended ) resemblance to several other movies , notably " return to paradise " and " midnight express . " 
as a result nearly every review of " brokedown palace " i subsequently read became hopelessly entangled in making the obvious comparisons . 
the consequence was nearly universal condemnation , which is a shame as this is a fine film . 
for those who have yet to view the movie , let me say that it is not an attempt to portray the nightmarish reality of the third world criminal justice system ( as was " midnight express " ) nor completely the moral dilemma and examination of the meaning of friendship and humanity that was the heart of " return to paradise . " 
in my view , if this film is to be compared to any other source it would have to be joseph conrad's acclaimed novel , " lord jim . " 
problematically , the basic storyline seems more than familiar : two american teenage girls on vacation are sentenced to spend most of their lives in a thai prison for drug smuggling in an obvious set-up involving a suave con-man , a shadowy criminal conspiracy and a corrupt third world " justice " system . 
the girls are alice ( claire danes ) and darlene ( kate beckinsale ) . 
they're life-long buddies who planned a high-school graduation trip to hawaii , and then secretly changed their destination to the more exotic thailand without telling their parents . 
once there , they find a $6 hotel and go sight-seeing , which includes sneaking into a luxury hotel to sip expensive drinks poolside . 
they get caught trying to charge the bill to the wrong room , a minor transgression which will later come back to haunt them , but they are saved from hotel security by a charming , friendly australian , nick ( daniel lapaine ) , who takes care of the bill with a more polished execution of the girl's scam . 
he then proceeds to separate the girls and make smooth moves , first toward alice , then toward darlene . 
by now alarm bells are going off among viewers . 
the ever-present nick is too slick and his stories don't add up ( to us ) --the girls , of course , are too naive to notice . 
long before it happens , we're anticipating the inevitable disappearance of the fast-talking smuggler and the arrest of our teenaged sitting-ducks at the airport en route to hong kong caught holding the bag ( literally ) containing heroin . 
just as predictably , the thai police and courts do their part in meting out injustice and our trusting tourists are prison-bound for a long stretch . 
left unanswered is the red herring issue of whether one or the other of the girls was a willing accomplice . 
for those in need of a ready answer , might i suggest closer scrutiny of the bell hop at the girl's fleabag hotel . 
as one door after another to their comfortable former life is closed , the girls and their families turn in desperation to the noiresque expatriate lawyer/fixer " yankee hank " ( bill pullam ) and his thai-born partner-wife . 
a recurring element of the movie is the tension between appearance and reality as expressed in one of the film's tag lines , " who do you trust ? , " and hank is no exception although seasoned movie- goers and those familiar with pullman's oeuvre will find few surprises . 
much of the remainder of the movie is a smorgasbord of intriguing themes incompletely explored in short-hand fashion . 
lou diamond phillips , for instance , plays a delightfully sinister and callous dea agent who , while appearing to be casually accommodating to hank , withholds vital information at crucial moments . 
is he part of a wider conspiracy ? 
with an inherently powerful , if somewhat tired premise , the film offers by parts a riveting courtroom drama , a prison story , and a potential character study of american teens , their relationship , and what constitutes friendship between them . 
the result is reasonably engaging and suspenseful , with the girls' interaction , hank's investigation , and the various trials and hearings , offering hope for their release , delivering tension--as does the foredoomed possibility of their escape . 
if " brokedown palace " has a major flaw , it is its creators' tendency , like time-constrained tourists , to take frequent side trips down fascinating alleys only to reverse direction half-way down and return to the story's main avenue . 
and , if that were all there was to " brokedown palace , " it wouldn't be a very good movie . 
but i believe the writers and director were after bigger game and , in this , they succeeded . 
for the main theme of the movie , like the proffered name of its location , is freedom--in all its permutations . 
ultimately , the other sub-themes may be considered window dressing . 
young and pretty , alice ( danes ) is an old soul ; a wild , streetwise teenager with a thirst for freedom and adventure . 
presented as a perfect blend of yin and yang , dark and light , is her cautious best friend , darlene ( beckinsale ) . 
clear-eyed and straightforward , alice is more complex than her friend . 
she comes from a poorer background , has a reputation for getting into trouble and has lost the trust of everyone ( including her own father ) . 
whereas darlene's life is " on-track , " aimed at college , marriage , kids , a career , a suburban home , middle age and " fulfillment , " alice's is uncertain , unfocused , and yearning . 
one poignant scene in the film shows darlene shouting across an open moat to visitors--friends and relatives from home , whose lives continue while hers is in limbo . 
tellingly , alice is present but not included . 
just as revealing of their different personalities , when alice and dar first come to thailand , the openness and delight on alice's face doesn't read as simple naivet ? ; the way she stands up and stretches as she and her friend ride along in a small boat , reaching toward the sun , she really is drinking in what she believes to be freedom , while " dar " remains seated in the shade . 
 " brokedown palace " begins with an admission by alice of her guilt in a tape recording sent to hank . 
however unintentional , it's all alice's fault . 
she's responsible for persuading her friend to lie to her parents , to sneak away from the safety of hawaii to the perils of thailand , to try the petty scam which places them in the clutches of the evil nick . 
 ( in case one misses this point in the inevitable confusion of a film's beginning , darlene obligingly reminds alice of her culpability in prison . ) 
dar , of course , is the willing dupe which , in her view , confers innocence . 
never mind that it was her coercion of a reluctant alice to accompany her to hong kong which placed them in police custody in the first place or that her naive confession sealed their fate . 
dar is innocent . 
it doesn't matter . 
alice is the subject of this movie . 
she and her journey toward personal freedom . 
along the way we are treated to an unsympathetic portrait of the shallow american culture which created these girls with their half-baked sensibilities and materialistic goals . 
in the end , that culture , like its representatives , " yankee " hank and dar's father ( a " man who knows how to grease the wheels " ) , proves as impotent as its government in the face of the girl's tragedy . 
thailand's culture , contrary to most opinion , comes off much better by comparison . 
it amazes me that reviewers argued this point at both extremes . 
i believe the filmmaker's view was that thai culture is vastly different from the american but not necessarily inferior . 
the thai ( with the sole exceptions of a corrupt official and a spiteful prison spy ) were uniformly consistent in their behavior and true to their principles . 
the girls were shown to be treated no better but certainly no worse than the native-born . 
their prison ( in stark contrast to the probable reality ) was no hellhole , being relatively clean and sunlit . 
the prison authorities demanded good hygiene , provided medical care when needed , and " hard manual labor " consisted of picking grass ! 
the thai guards were authoritarian ( what else ? ) but certainly not routinely sadistic . 
as for the thai justice system , the reasoning of the thai judges , during both an appeal hearing and in the film's penultimate scene was devastating in its logic and morality . 
'freedom' has many faces and " brokedown palace " explores many of them . 
in the extreme , we have freedom of the body and freedom of the spirit . 
some settle for the former alone while others remain imprisoned with an entire nation to roam without the latter . 
but freedom seldom comes without a price . 
which is why the movie's other tag lines are : " what is your dream ? " 
and " how far would you go ? " 
i believe i could make a good case for the interpretation that the person who attains freedom , incarcerated or not , by film's end is alice . 
she finds redemption and salvation through the acceptance of personal responsibility . 
i think the light bathing only her figure among the assembled prisoners in the final scene visually signals that fact . 
kate beckinsale's character might more properly be likened to the " released " temple bird referred to twice during the film , " trained to fly back to its cage . " 
as the thai magistrate observed in the film's climactic scene , the issue was always one of " character ; " and the jamaican prisoner made it clear that " freedom " is achieved within oneself . 
if one thinks back over the movie , which character was transformed by their experiences ? 
increasingly , the cinema landscape seems to have become littered with endless permutations of 'kung fu woman'--female characters virtually indistinguishable from male action figures . 
here , at last , is the story of a modern heroine . 
in reading the many user's comments , i was struck by what seems an unusual phenomenon : whether or not a person liked the movie , almost everyone praised the actors . 
think about that . 
when was the last time you came away from a motion picture possibly hating it , but raving about all the performances in it ? 
do yourself a favor : rent " brokedown palace " and watch it with a open mind . 
there's more there than meets the eye . 

you've got to love disney . 
no matter what they serve up , it is a guaranteed success as long as it's animated . 
kids have to go see the movie . 
then they have to get the toys . 
oh , the video came out ? 
got to buy it , or risk little billy's temper tantrums for the next month . 
all of this culminates in the childhood equivalent of a pilgrimage to mecca : a visit to the magic kingdom . 
stay at the disneyland hotel ! 
buy a disney t-shirt ! 
eat an ice cream mickey mouse on a stick ! 
it's both a vertical and horizontal monopoly when you think about it . 
dale carnegie should have had it so good . 
what's most amazing is that all this success is in spite of a severe lack of originality . 
you see , disney animated features these days have two components : theme and plot . 
the theme changes with each new movie ; the plot does not . 
the plot is a mold into which the characters of some ancient fable are dropped , and try as they might to rise above the characters of previous features , they are nearly always destined to do no more than the same . 
however , while the success of a disney animated feature is generally a given as far as box-office receipts , merchandising dollars , and glimmers in the eyes of little children , critically they are as varied as anything else that hollywood has to offer . 
luckily , disney's latest animated offering , mulan , manages to be engaging and refreshing , even while rife with formula . 
the film starts with the invasion of ancient china by the huns , led by the imposing shan-yu ( miguel ferrer ) . 
soon , china's emperor ( pat morita ) mobilizes his armies and decrees that one male from each family in the country shall serve to fight in china's defense . 
when the fa family is served notice , it is the elderly father , fa zhou ( soon-tek oh ) who must answer the call , as there are no other males in the household . 
fearing her father will surely be killed in battle , fa mulan ( ming-na wen ) disguises herself as a man and sneaks off with the royal orders to join the chinese army . 
mulan , based on a chinese epic poem , is a classic tale of the triumph of the ugly duckling . 
mulan herself is a disgrace to her loving family , as she has a difficult time fitting into the traditional woman's role , and in a very amusing scene where a matchmaker attempts to assess her value to a potential husband , we see that " grace " is not one of her strong points . 
very early on , we are presented with the high importance of bringing honor to one's family , and by botching her chance at gaining the favor of the matchmaker , mulan fails at that task . 
by leaving home to fight in her father's place , she may not only spare his life , but bring honor , too . 
as is the case with most disney musicals , the songs are first rate and pervasive throughout the film . 
i'm not sure if they will get much airplay , but at least one of the songs will no doubt receive recognition come oscar time . 
both lea salonga , who provides the singing voice for mulan , and donny osmond who sings for shang , the captain of mulan's army unit and obligatory love interest , are more than competent , although salonga's voice translates much better to animation . 
you have to hear it to understand . 
interestingly , the musical numbers which are so often done with big flourishes are surprisingly muted in mulan . 
there is no significantly big number , which is customary as the second or third song in a disney film , but this does not detract significantly from the rest of the movie . 
it is , however , an expectation which has been built by disney's own formulaic history , and some viewers may feel as if something is missing . 
artistically , the animators have chosen to adopt the more subdued pastels of chinese artwork , and although this may not live up to the vibrance so associated with many of the other disney works , it helps to contribute a more authentic , and therefore more credible , nature to what otherwise may be seen as a typically " disneyfied " ethnic tale . 
there are also a couple of visually standout scenes , one involving the charge of shan-yu's hun army , which utilizes the same computer-enhanced imagery disney animators have employed since the chandelier in beauty and the beast . 
the other scene worth mentioning is so quick you might miss it . 
when mulan resolves to take her father's place , she dons her father's old battle armor , and unsheathes a sword . 
as she does so , you can see her reflection in the polished metal . 
it just left me thinking , " that was really cool . " 
a wonderful range of performances delight the audience throughout the film , varying from the straight , such as soon-tek oh as fa zhou , to the comical , such as harvey fierstein as yao , a gruff , pugilistic member of shang's conscripted army . 
even more outrageous is eddie murphy as mushu , the diminutive guardian dragon sent to look after mulan . 
although an obvious attempt to relive the chemistry brought forth by robin williams in aladdin , murphy nevertheless distinguishes himself with his own winning performance . 
i found the choice of b . d . 
wong as shang a little strange ( you may remember him as martin short's wedding planner assistant in the father of the bride ) , but they used robbie benson for the voice of the beast in beauty and the beast , so i guess anything's possible . 
in any event , wong performs admirably as well . 
one character which provides a significant amount of humor is grandmother fa . 
she deserves recognition not only because of the levity she brings to the movie , but also because she is voiced by two very remarkable people . 
june foray , who supplies grandmother fa's speaking voice , is a venerable voice actress who may be best known for her work as rocky the squirrel and natasha fatale ( as in boris and natasha ) . 
marni nixon , who provides grandmother fa's singing voice , is the same vocalist who dubbed the voices for anna in the king and i , maria in west side story , and eliza in my fair lady . 
with this in mind , hearing grandmother fa is like listening to a little piece of history . 
mulan is the latest disney animated feature to get away from some of the eurocentrism which for so long dominated disney films . 
in an effort to be culturally sensitive ( and to avoid a " miss saigon " -type debacle ) , disney has also wisely chosen to employ many asian-american actors for both lead and supporting roles . 
in addition to the actors already mentioned , the cast includes such ubiquitous talents as james hong , gedde watanabe , james shigeta , and george takei . 
i guess clyde kusatsu wasn't available . 
at a running time of slightly under an hour and a half , mulan moves quickly and provides solid entertainment for both children and , happily , adults . 
this is the kind of disney feature that makes you wonder what they will do next , rather than hope that the next one is better . 

in zoolander , the world's most successful , influential and intellectually-challenged male model derek zoolander wonders , " is there more to life than being really really really good looking ? " 
obviously , the film's creator and star ben stiller asked a similar question when crafting a feature-length movie out of his hilarious vh1/vogue fashion awards short-film subject : can there be more to this film than being really really really silly ? 
no , of course not , and it never aspires to be anything more . 
much like derek , zoolander is a sweet simpleton of a movie . 
it's not complex in either its social commentary or its comedy , and it never produces any gut-busting laughs ( except maybe a scene when derek's model roommates all die in a tragic " gasoline fight " accident -- a riotously funny take-off of tommy hilfiger ads ) . 
but it has a satisfying handful of strong chuckles , wild characters and performances , and mildly harsh potshots at the fashion industry to keep you amused . 
better yet , this exaggerated version of the original three-minute skit is only blown out to an efficient 95 minutes -- just enough time to string together its goofball plot without exhausting the gag . 
zoolander opens with several fashion bigwigs plotting to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , since he wants to abolish child labor in his country and thus driving up their costs . 
fashion designer and criminal mastermind jacobim mugatu ( will ferrell ) drafts a plan to brainwash the dumbest fashion model to carry out the evil deed . 
enter derek , whose career is slumping as newcomer hansel ( owen wilson ) takes the spotlight . 
on the trail of mugatu's plot is time magazine reporter matilda jeffries ( stiller's real-life wife christine taylor ) , and she's hoping to use mugatu's pawn derek to ultimately foil the scheme . 
much like the austin powers films , zoolander relies heavily on the strength of the talent involved , and this zany comedy features some of the funniest people in entertainment today . 
wilson is hysterical as the young , vain hansel . 
ferrell nearly steals the show from everyone as the flamboyant , freakish mugatu in the same way dr . evil upstages everyone in austin powers . 
jerry stiller -- ben's dad who's best remembered as frank costanza of seinfeld -- makes a priceless turn as derek's slimy agent maury ballstein . 
even ben stiller show alum andy dick shows up as a deranged , large-assed masseuse . 
as for ben stiller , it seems his derek has one gag : he's stupid , which plays out in some uproarious one-liners . 
unfortunately , taylor seems out of place and out of her league here . 
maybe it's just because i can't stop seeing her as marcia brady ( who she played in both brady movies ) , making her unbelievable as a dowdy , brainy plain jane who hasn't had sex in two years . 
she leaves me pining for the cynicism of janeane garofolo , who would've added real comic substance to the flimsy role . 
while zoolander is hardly highbrow , its screwball humor is welcome during these trying times , especially considering the gross lack of decent pickings in the theaters these days . 
zoolander's no masterpiece , but a very worthy distraction . 

fantastically over hyped , godzila finally lumbers onto the big screen . 
the film opens with footage of nuclear testing on the french polynesian islands , then an attack on a boat from some beast , and finally we join dr . nick tatopoulos ( broderick looking about 17 years old ) doing some research in chernobyl . 
some shady u . s government guys appear , and ask him to come to an island where they have massive footprints , from what looks like a giant lizard . 
and what's more , this beast is heading for new york . 
gulp ! 
although godzilla should be a non stop roller coaster ride , and at some points it is , there is something curiously uninvolving and unexciting about this movie . 
the main faults lie with the acting and writing , common problems with 'summer blockbuster' movies . 
broderick is pretty useless as the hero , with no humour or a 'tough guy' image . 
while emmerich's previous summer flick , independence day ( 1996 ) had wisecracks and action from jeff goldblum and will smith , this has neither . 
also , maria pitillo , as broderick's former girlfriend , is just as useless , with a chronic disability in acting . 
she's incapable of showing emotion , speaks every line in the same way , and basically she's total crap . 
it's up to french actor jean reno to save the day , and indeed he does , turning in a campy performance as a french secret agent . 
shame he has such little screen time in such a overlong film . 
hank azaria also turns up as a crazy cameraman named 'animal' , and he adds a little life to the picture . 
also making an appearance is harry shearer ( probably best know for doing voices in the simpsons ) as a slimy news reporter . 
o . k , so the acting is not up to par , but it never is in these movies . 
but what about the script ? 
well , that's not up to par either . 
emmerich and screenwriting pal dean devlin seem so caught in the destruction of new york city that they forgot to write a script . 
the dialogue is banal ( broderick looks at a lot of fish and utters 'that's a lot of fish . ' ) , and the character development is non existent ( reno plays the typical frenchman ( 'no croissant ? ' ) , 
broderick forever remains a geeky scientist . ) 
also , the film is seriously lacking a sense of humour . 
the jokes that are uttered are pathetic , and there's an 'hilarious' running gag about siskel and ebert . 
 ( the mayor is mayor ebert , and is assistant is called gene ! 
ha ha ha ha ! . ) 
the plot is dire , and in the end just rips off jurassic park ( 1993 ) by having lots of baby godzilla's ( i . e . 
velicorapters ) running around new york . 
right , so the script and acting suck . 
but what about the special effects ? 
thankfully , they're are quite good . 
godzilla is an impressive piece of cgi , although we don't see much of him because the movie is so dark . 
the destruction of new york is pretty well done aswell . 
but although they are impressive , they can't save godzilla from being an hugely disappointing and boring movie . 
the movie goes on for far too long aswell , and it can't seem to decide on a ending . 
and of course , the ending itself leaves possibility for a sequel . 
let's just hope one never arrives . 

every now and then a movie comes along from a suspect studio , with every indication that it will be a stinker , and to everybody's surprise ( perhaps even the studio ) the film becomes a critical darling . 
mtv films' _election , a high school comedy starring matthew broderick and reese witherspoon , is a current example . 
did anybody know this film existed a week before it opened ? 
the plot is deceptively simple . 
george washington carver high school is having student elections . 
tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an over-achiever with her hand raised at nearly every question , way , way , high . 
mr . " m " ( matthew broderick ) , sick of the megalomaniac student , encourages paul , a popular-but-slow jock to run . 
and paul's nihilistic sister jumps in the race as well , for personal reasons . 
the dark side of such sleeper success is that , because expectations were so low going in , the fact that this was quality stuff made the reviews even more enthusiastic than they have any right to be . 
you can't help going in with the baggage of glowing reviews , which is in contrast to the negative baggage that the reviewers were likely to have . 
_election , a good film , does not live up to its hype . 
what makes _election_ so disappointing is that it contains significant plot details lifted directly from _rushmore_ , released a few months earlier . 
the similarities are staggering : 
tracy flick ( _election_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
max fischer ( _rushmore_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
the most significant tension of _election_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
the most significant tension of _rushmore_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
tracy flick is from a single parent home , which has contributed to her drive . 
max fischer is from a single parent home , which has contributed to his drive . 
the male bumbling adult in _election_ ( matthew broderick ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he even gets a bee sting . 
the male bumbling adult in _rushmore_ ( bill murray ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he gets several bee stings . 
and so on . 
what happened ? 
how is it that an individual screenplay ( _rushmore_ ) and a novel ( _election_ ) contain so many significant plot points , and yet both films were probably not even aware of each other , made from two different studios , from a genre ( the high school geeks revenge movie ) that hadn't been fully formed yet ? 
even so , the strengths of _election_ rely upon its fantastic performances from broderick , witherspoon , and newcomer jessica campbell , as paul's anti-social sister , tammy . 
broderick here is playing the mr . rooney role from _ferris bueller_ , and he seems to be having the most fun he's had since then . 
witherspoon is a revelation . 
it's early in the year , it's a comedy , and teenagers have little clout , but for my money , witherspoon deserves an oscar nomination . 
and once campbell's character gets going , like in her fantastic speech in the gymnasium , then you're won over . 
one thing that's been bothering me since i've seen it . 
there is an extraordinary amount of sexuality in this film . 
i suppose that , coming from mtv films , i should expect no less . . . 
but the film starts off light and airy , like a sitcom . 
as the screws tighten , and the tensions mount , alexander payne decides to add elements that , frankly , distract from the story . 
it is bad enough that mr . m doesn't like tracy's determination to win at all costs , but did they have to throw in the student/teacher relationship ? 
even so , there's no logical reason why mr . m has an affair when he does . 
there's a lot to like in _election_ , but the plot similarities to _rushmore_ , and the tonal nosedive it takes as it gets explicitly sex-driven , mark this as a disappointment . 

look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end ! 
i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse ! 
unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it . 
van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . ) 
without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck . 
being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . ) 
director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . ) 
the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time . 
suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original . 
sadly , that did not occur . 
it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen . 
in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression ! 
from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully ! 
mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i . 
jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point . 
sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it . 
mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory . 
anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen . 
at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast . 
the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates . 
he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice . 
the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk . 
there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film . 
van sant has made a boring film . 
all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now . 
what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite . 
van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? ) 
these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter . 
definitely not hitchcock's intention ! 
at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score . 
if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point . 
aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience . 
there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting . 
in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 

a month ago i wrote that speed 2 was the worst film i've ever reviewed on paper . 
i didn't know at the time that i'd soon encounter and despise batman & robin , which has just overtaken speed 2 as the picture least worthy of your attention this summer . 
as directed by joel schumacher ( who now specializes in batman sequels and john grisham adaptations and isn't very good at either ) , b & r is one long excuse for a taco bell promotion . 
the plot , which has mr . freeze and poison ivy ( uma thurman ) planning to take over gotham city and then " the vorld " ( as an oddly ineffective schwarzenegger states ) , is weighted down by repetitive asides about the nature of trust , partnership , blah , blah , blah . 
but morals are not the point of this film--topping each bloated , confusing action scene with next one is . 
the garish art direction and overlit cinematography make this picture oddly comparable to the trashy showgirls . 
since when did gotham city become a giant las vegas hotel ? 
only george clooney comes out on top ; he underplays nicely and pretends like he's in a real movie . 

virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre . 
since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another . 
the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix . 
all the films released after it , have been less successful . 
david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone . 
and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored . 
i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again . 
it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' . 
however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture . 
matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story . 
existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness . 
'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between . 
instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding . 
in a near future . . . on 
the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real . 
right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered . 
douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth . 
a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence . 
the first " download into simulation " is impressive . 
it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation . 
in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person . 
this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen . 
they start to doubt in their own sanity . 
these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives . 
it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy . 
with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present . 
our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal . 
the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile . 
this contrast demonstrates a wish for change . 
virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities . 
to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences . 
for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past . 
virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life . 
at least that's how it is all beginning . 
but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise . 
this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness . 
some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ? 
what is thought ? 
who are we ? 
if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made . 
they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner . 
the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes . 
kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties . 
there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time . 
a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects . 
there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion . 
this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking . 
this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased . 
this film is interesting and inspiring . 
it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix . 
and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context . 
the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' . 
with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality . 

the blues brothers was a wonderful film , a hilarious comedy packed with good music . 
it cried out for a sequel , but john belushi's untimely death seemed to eliminate the idea . 
however , eighteen years have passed , and the long dormant sequel has finally emerged . 
unfortunately , it's a sequel not worthy of the original . 
the film starts exactly eighteen years after the first one ended . 
elwood blues ( dan aykroyd ) is just getting out of jail , his brother jake having recently died . 
as in the first film , he first visits mother mary stigmata ( kathleen freeman ) and then sets about getting the band back together . 
john belushi's absence leaves a terrible hole in the film , and although three new characters are created to fill the void , it is still very noticeable . 
first , there's cabel ( joe morton ) the illegitimate son of elwood's stepfather ( played by cab calloway in the first movie ) . 
cabel is reluctant to join his destiny , and spends most of the movie as an illinois sheriff , chasing the blues brothers band . 
next , there's mighty mack ( john goodman ) , a bartender who becomes the new lead singer of the band . 
finally , there's buster ( j . 
evan bonifant ) , a ten year old orphan who tags along with elwood and eventually joins the band . 
the plotting of the film is hardly original . . . it 
seems to be almost a clone of the original . 
elwood has to go to reluctantly retrieve each member of the band , they then travel , while being pursued by the police , and perform at several odd stops until they finally reach the big concert finale . 
the first film had neo-nazis as the random element , this time around , the russian mafia and a militia group fill their role . 
in fact , the duplication of the plot is so ridiculously complete that certain scenes are practically identical to the original . 
remember the classic performance at country bob's ( where they like both types of music : country and western ) from the first movie ? 
well , this movie has a performance at a country fair , where the band is expected to play bluegrass music . 
there's the massive police car pileup , although this time the gag falls completely flat . 
there's even an exact replica of the conversion scene in the church of reverend cleophus ( james brown ) . 
there are plenty of recurring characters too . 
in addition to mother stigmata and reverend cleophus , aretha franklin reprises her role as mrs . murphy . 
frank oz , a prison guard in the first film , makes an appearance here as the prison warden . 
as the stars , the new blues brothers don't live up to their legacy . 
aykroyd is more loquacious , yet much flatter as elwood . 
john goodman barely has a character as mighty mack . 
joe morton has the deepest character , but not a terribly interesting one , as cab . 
and what's the deal with the orphan ? 
it plays like a desperate gimmick that doesn't mesh at all with the rest of the film . 
at least bonifant isn't as precocious as he could have been in the role . 
but the true star , and the only saving grace , of the film is the music . 
and the film is packed with it ( even during and after the ending credits ) . 
although there are no brilliant mergers of comedy and song as in the original's rawhide/stand by your man medley , the music is very much enjoyable . 
to top it off , the film is packed to the gills with cameo musician appearances . 
b . b . king , blues traveler , eric clapton , travis tritt , wilson pickett , erykah badu , bo diddley and steve winwood are just a sampling of the multitude of stars that make an appearance here and there . 
unfortunately , the music pauses here and there to allow in the familiar plot . 
if simply copying the original blues brothers wasn't bad enough , writers aykroyd and john landis dumb it down , removing any memorable characters , and replacing them with flashy , but unbelievable , magical gimmicks . 
it's a shame . 
buy the soundtrack and avoid the film . 
better yet , rewatch the original . . . you'll 
have a much better time . 

you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and 
it's not a comedy ! 
and what a strange career path for director chuck russell . 
he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three . 
he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that . 
so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ? 
strange dude and one crappy flick . 
plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god . 
a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well , 
save her from those damn devil worshippers ! 
enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here . 
critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot . 
what's good about this movie ? 
well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around . 
the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much . 
and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability . 
for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is 
a dumb one ! 
add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ? 
at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie . 
and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ? 
did they owe the director a favor or something ? 
together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs . 
the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime ! 
uuuhmm . . . how's 
about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? ! 
anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) . 
and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ? 
difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly . 
either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film . 
but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well , 
drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 

you don't look at a ren ? magritte painting and search for a deeper meaning . 
you likewise don't look at one for 88 minutes straight . 
surrealist works are notable for their quirks , and they are fun , but looking at one quirk for an hour and a half is exhausting . 
that was my experience with i woke up early the day i died , a surrealistic , hyperactive comedy with no dialogue . 
it's not a silent movie ; there is lots of atmospheric music , occasional screams and weird sound effects , but nobody ever utters an audible word . 
though the film is distinctive , its unique style wore thin after about 20 minutes , and as it progressed , watching became a chore . 
the only reason the script ever got filmed is because it was written by the pseudo-legendary ed wood , the man behind such " classics " as plan 9 >from outer space and night of the ghouls . 
the joke , of course , is that his films are so bad , they're good ; so humorous in their inanity that they become hits . 
i woke up early the day i died , unfortunatly , is so bad that it's really bad . 
it stars billy zane ( titanic ) as a dangerous lunatic who overpowers a nurse , escapes from a mental hospital and proceeds to wonder around , stealing a car , clothes , and a load of money . 
our thief reaches a cemetery , where he witnesses a bizarre ritual . 
he falls asleep and finds himself , literally , in a hole , with his money gone . 
for whatever reason , he is bent on getting his hard-unearned cash back ( considering how easily he stole it the first time , why didn't he just go steal some more ? ) . 
he comes upon a list of the people who were at the mysterious ceremony and commences to seek out each of them and kill them if they don't have what he is looking for . 
i don't think either director aris iliopulos nor ed wood realized that this would have made a glorious 20 minute short . 
the subject and the style seem to have been made for it . 
unfortunately , twenty minutes worth of material is stretched out to more than four times that length , and the film simply overstays its already dubious welcome . 
it grabbed my attention in the beginning and gradually lost it as it went on , up to the point where halfway through i was already weary . 
it might seem odd that a film as furiously paced as this one can be so tedious ; but the surprise will wear off when you consider how repetitive it is . 
i woke up early the day i died is a comedy , i guess , though it could have fooled me . 
unlike most ed wood films , this one tries to be funny and fails , instead of the other way around . 
there's nothing inherently wrong with that , in fact , i think it would only make sense for someone who has been so " good " at making unintentional comedies to take a stab at a real one . 
whether wood actually went for comedy in his script we'll never know , but in either case , this is a failure . 
jonathan taylor thomas , christina ricci , summer phoenix , john ritter and others show up for short and pointless cameos . 
ricci , for example , plays a prostitute . 
her role consists of dancing around with zane in his motel room and then being thrown out . 
thomas is an astonished onlooker as a woman gets thrown off a cliff . 
was the home improvement teen heartthrob really that desperate for work ? 
zane , meanwhile , occupies himself by making weird faces at the camera when he is not called upon to run around wildly and beat people up . 
lack of dialogue makes him the ultimate caricature . 
the carnival side-show climax manages to demonstrate everything that is wrong with this no-budget production . 
it's desperately unfunny , but thinks it's the funniest thing since plan 9 ; , it's so spontaneously surrealistic it makes your head spin all while being confusing enough to make your head spin twice as fast in the other direction . 
i hope another film is made from an ed wood screenplay for i woke up early the day i died is not a fitting send-off . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 

zero effect gets its title from the main character , daryl zero ( bill pullman ) , although we don't understand what it truly means until the very last line of dialogue in the film . 
zero is a private investigator , perhaps the best private investigator who ever lived ( at least he'd like to think so ) . 
however , he's a socially inept being , and eccentric in every possible way -- this fact certainly makes his talents as a private eye even more bewildering than they already are . 
zero's accomplice is steve arlo ( ben stiller ) , a " normal " guy who does the business side of the job -- he's the one who actually speaks to clients and explains zero's greatness as an investigator . 
the opening scene has steve explaining the many virtues of zero's talents to soon-to-be client gregory stark ( ryan o'neal ) . 
it turns out that stark has lost a key to a safe deposit box , and is now being blackmailed for something that he apparently knows nothing about . 
zero takes the case , and the plot thickens . 
his path leads to a young , pretty paramedic named gloria sullivan ( kim dickens ) . 
despite her luminous and seemingly-harmless presence , she turns out to be the one blackmailing stark . 
through his investigations , zero learns why , but not without developing feelings for gloria -- feelings that , because of his reclusive behavior , are new and confusing to him . 
i have no particular affinity towards the mystery genre of film . 
i can idly enjoy movies about private investigators , and , every once in a while , a film like chinatown comes a long that blows me away ( actually , no private eye film has ever reached chinatown's greatness ) . 
zero effect , which is jake kasdan's first effort as writer/director , is a film about a private investigator that succeeds in all attempts : it's an original , funny , and completely involving motion picture . 
with so many cliches available to this genre , i find it amazing that kasdan avoided all of them . 
but he didn't just successfully avoid flaws : he has created a great film here , one that had me interested and fascinated from the first shot to the final moment . 
take , for starters , the great cast of characters . 
pullman is terrific as zero , showing a comic flair that i really haven't seen from him since spaceballs . 
zero is the kind of guy who seems at ease switching personalities so frequently as he does here ; the fact that he's an almost exaggeratedly twisted , emotionally unstable man outside of his profession is not at all difficult to believe . 
pullman's performance is much more layered than it might seem at first glance , and the occasional voice-over as he's going through the motions of his job are insightful and often hilarious . 
ben stiller is also a very funny individual ; he's the kind of comedian who makes normal lines sound funny . 
 " i'll shoot you , " he says to stark at one point . 
 " i have a gun , and everything . " 
his character is also well-drawn , with an interesting subplot involving his girlfriend ( angela featherstone ) who is not happy with the extensive amounts of time he must spend away from her due to the unpredictability of his job . 
o'neal also gives his character a bit of depth ; and kim dickens , last seen ( and underused ) in mercury rising , gets a chance to show us her talent here , giving gloria the realism this kind of character really needs . 
i find zero effect to be an immensely funny and witty film . 
kasdan's humor is of the best kind -- soft spoken , and mostly dialogue-driven ( though there are some great visual jokes ) . 
it's the kind of humor that's funny even after you've seen it five or six times . 
there's one scene in which zero talks about how detached he is , an how that makes him such a great detective . 
what we see during this narration are various shots of him sitting on a bed , or standing motionlessly , with his hair destroyed and an utterly blank look painted on his unshaven face , his eyes pointing to something off camera , but obviously to nothing in particular . 
i can't convey to you how funny this is , but what makes it great film making is that it has a point -- scenes like this are frequent , and they provide solid characterization of zero . 
as a side note , i don't consider myself an average viewer when it comes to comedy ( not to sound elitist ) -- i find things funny that many do not , and vice versa . 
there was a clump of people near me in the theater laughing uproariously through this film , and the rest of the theater was relatively silent through most of it . 
i have a feeling the humor here won't appeal to everyone , but there's certainly enough story and character development to keep anyone's interest . 
jake kasdan , son of writer/director lawrence kasdan , is only 22 years old . 
i found this out after seeing the film , and i can't remember ever being so impressed with a film maker . 
his direction is stylish without being pretentious , and his writing is mature , full , and developed . 
zero effect is the kind of film that i'll buy for my collection -- smart , original films like this are rare as it is , but this one actually has a heart and a soul . 
at the end of the film , i was involved in the characters , and i was satisfied with the outcome . 
and , with kasdan's undeniable talent at such a young age , all i can do is hope to see a lot more from him in the future . 

you know you're in for a truly different cinematic experience the moment you realize steve buscemi has been cast as the movie in question's most normal character . 
such is the case with " the big lebowski , " joel and ethan coen's first venture since their " fargo " nabbed nationwide acclaim and a mantlepiece of academy award nods . 
there's no need to fear that the coens suffered creative burnout with that accomplishment , because " lebowski " is an effort that makes words like " strange " and " unusual " seem like an understatement . 
thanks in part to delicious characterization and an all-encompassing sense of humor , the film is a smashing success . 
the central oddball here is the dude ( jeff bridges ) , an unemployed cad whose ambitions appear to be zilch beyond smoking pot , drinking beer and going bowling ( are you college students already rooting for him , or what ? ) . 
one night , a pair of thugs break into his house and pee on his carpet , a threatening act that's supposed to be carried out against a famous pasadena millionaire ( david huddleston ) who shares his birth name -- jeff lebowski -- with the dude . 
once the dude realizes this coincidence , he visits the big lebowski in hopes to claim reparations for his soiled rug , and is back to his normal life with alley pals walter ( john goodman ) , a hotheaded vietnam vet , and donny ( buscemi ) , a mild-mannered surfer , before too long . 
soon , though , lebowski's trampy trophy wife bunny ( tara reid ) is kidnaped and held for a hefty ransom , and he turns to the dude for help . 
it seems bunny's troubles are related to a line of work she's kept secret from her husband -- she's actually an adult film star and is very in debt with a shady producer named jackie treehorn . 
the dude , now on lebowski's payroll , accepts the offer and agrees to handle the money drop ; walter tags along and insists that the dude keep the cash for himself . 
chaos obviously ensues , and the dude eventually finds himself in hot water with cops , crooks and lebowski's ultra-eccentric artist daughter maude ( julianne moore ) . 
 " the big lebowski " deserves to win the coens the same amount of acclaim that " fargo " did ; while that 1996 black comedy was certainly a better film , " lebowski " is at least as breathtakingly imaginative . 
the movie boasts a mile-high absurdity level that sometimes threatens to topple over , but thankfully never does . 
the coens ( joel directed , ethan produced and both wrote ) keep you in stitches as they unravel their exceedingly loopy tale , and must be commended for juggling a number of people and subplots one would expect to find in a robert altman flick . 
whether we're watching bridges fend off a marmet in his bathtub or moore don viking duds and dance in a busby berkeley-esque dream sequence , " the big lebowski " is immensely lively . 
there are those who will dislike this film , but not because it's boring . 
the cast has a great deal of fun with the bounteous material they're given . 
bridges exudes a likeable , surprisingly sweet presence ; his dude sure isn't the cleanest guy around , but you'd still follow him to another movie . 
goodman merits 1998's first oscar consideration , as walter's manic temper is one of " the big lebowski " 's many highlights ; the same goes for moore , whose throaty , delectable performance as maude is a hilarious hoot . 
john turturro may very well steal the movie with his two scenes as a colorful bowler from a rival faction . 
sam elliott's rambling narration gets the film off to a solid start . 
and some will recognize peter stormare -- " fargo " 's silent heavy -- as carl hungus , a porn star who's really a samurai sword-wielding german nihilist and has-been pop star . 
only in its final third does the movie falter , with a couple of loose plot threads and some cast members who quickly disappear and never emerge for a curtain call . 
these flaws are forgivable , though -- the coens have crafted a tale so rich with personality that it's hard to look at the final product with anything but a big grin on your face . 
without a doubt , " the big lebowski " is the best film so far this year . 
sure , we're only three months in and the competition ( " deep rising , " " desperate measures , " " the wedding singer , " etc . ) has been pretty bland , but it's still the gospel truth . 
maybe during next awards season , " lebowski " won't be a far cry from " fargo . " 

and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time . 
yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it . 
oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . . 
plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or 
something along those lines . 
critique : a complete and utter mess . 
disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and 
that's just the first thirty minutes ! 
this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself . 
it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) . 
the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it 
just goes from one inexplicable situation to another . 
one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s . 
why ? 
who knows . 
what are they talking about ? 
no idea . 
flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! ! 
hullo . . . ? ! ? 
confused yet ? 
i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story . 
random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ? 
or were they in the present at that time ? 
who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who 
seriously cares ! 
this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it . 
please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it ! 
even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one . 
the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere . 
and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ? 
nope . 
and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes , 
the man is not aging gracefully , is he ? 
oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years . 
the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near . 
overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's 
a living ! 
he's also very funny , not purposely though . 
all in all , the movie stinks . 
nuff said . 

i had lost all faith in pg-13 movies that are intended for teenagers and adults . 
the last dozen or so that i have seen have all felt incomplete , as if the most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating . 
however , after seeing the creative frequency last week and now the exciting u-571 , my bias is beginning to go away . 
both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intellectual for older viewers . 
even better , i didn't think either one of these films would be any good from first instincts . 
everyone loves surprises . 
u-571 looked like another action film using an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes and bullets . 
this may be true , but the action is so extraordinary that it is clear director/co-writer jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal ; to blow the audience's socks off . 
set during the early stages of world war 2 when the united states struggled to break the codes of the technologically advanced german u-boats , u-571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe the typewriter necessary to solve the enigma from an enemy ship . 
there's only one problem : the american ship they came from and hoped to return to has been shot down stranding the men on a german submarine known as ( you guessed it ) u-571 . 
it is now up to the mostly young and inexperienced sailors , led by an interim captain named tyler ( matthew mcconaughey ) , to return the typewriter to america without getting sunk by far superior german ships . 
the film starts off very slowly with a somewhat weak opening action sequence and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors ( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear ) . 
once the crew gets on the u-boat , the movie shifts to another level and never leaves this high energy level until the ending credits roll down . 
as soon as the action starts , it does not stop and luckily , because it is so exciting , i didn't want it to stop . 
this is not a movie for those wanting to avoid loud noises , from the wonderful , heart-pounding score to the constant yelling of panicking men , make sure you see this at a theater with surround-sound ? otherwise , do not see it all . 
the best parts of u-571 are when tyler is forced to make impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations . 
throughout the movie , several morals or characters are introduced to make tyler's job as stressful as possible . 
germans gun down their own men , tyler's mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain has to be prepared to sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory , another sailor ( erik palladino ) threatens mutiny . 
all of these examples , and several others , increase the chaotic atmosphere and the importance of tyler's every move . 
they also make u-571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while . 

1 . he doesn't have a hard-to-decipher accent , 2 . he doesn't always speak in a monotone , and 3 . 
his face doesn't always wear the same impassive expression . 
in short , the former nfl player turned fox sportscaster turned actor is too good to be bad , but too bad to be good . 
unfortunately , the same cannot be said of his first star vehicle , firestorm , which is just plain awful . 
one of the most glaring problems with long ( who made his acting debut in john woo's broken arrow ) is that he's so mediocre that he often blends in with the scenery . 
as ace firefighter jesse graves , long is supposed to be playing a bigger-than-life action hero -- the kind of he- man who will crash through a flaming door to save a child or parachute into a burning clearing to rescue some stupid campers . 
unfortunately , despite the best efforts of first-time director dean semler to photograph long using heroic shots that make kevin costner's work in the postman look stark , jesse turns out to be a pretty boring good guy . 
to put it kindly , this is not a well-written motion picture . 
firestorm is a collection of howlingly bad lines set against a backdrop of disaster movie clich ? s which , taken together , form something that requires a level of viewer inebriation to be recognized as a plot . 
the only reason this film is getting one star ( instead of something lower ) is that most of the fire sequences are realistic , and i was fascinated by the meticulous planning that must have been necessary to stage them effectively . 
we're introduced to our big burly hero one afternoon when he and some colleagues jump into the midst of a forest fire to save a group of people . 
during this sequence , our big burly hero proves that he's also a sensitive guy by risking his life to save a little girl and her dog ( yes , the dog lives ) from being broiled alive . 
flash-forward a year . 
now , our big burly hero is taking over as chief of his smokejumpers association , replacing outgoing honcho wynt perkins ( real actor scott glenn ) . 
but this day , our big burly hero's first in charge , isn't going to be business-as-usual . 
a group of nasty escaped criminals have set a wyoming forest alight to aid their flight to freedom . 
led by randy earl shaye ( william forsythe ) , the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , they pose as canadian firefighters who somehow got lost across the border . 
along the way , they meet and take hostage the damsel in distress ( suzy amis ) . 
eventually , our big burly hero is placed in a position where he has to fight the fire , rescue the damsel in distress , defeat the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , and restore order to the galaxy . 
firestorm's director , dean semler , is a former cinematographer ( he won an academy award for his work on dances with wolves ) , so it's no surprise that the film looks good . 
unfortunately , that's firestorm's lone asset , and it falters near the end , when computer-generated special effects fill up the screen . 
these are of about equal quality to what you might observe on a nintendo 64 video game . 
the action sequences , which include a variety of chases , are occasionally interesting , but never invigorating . 
everyone , including long , appears to be going through the motions . 
there isn't a memorable performance to be found from beginning to end , unless you count the forest fire , which generates some heat . 
as the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , william forsythe lacks panache . 
he's worse than a generic bad guy ; he's a boring generic bad guy who doesn't have any snappy one-liners to hurl at our big burly hero . 
my advice to scott glenn ( absolute power ) and suzy amis ( titanic ) is to accidentally forget this film the next time they're making out a resume . 
there's some small comfort in knowing this early in the year that i already have one entry for my bottom 10 list . 
 ( at least i hope there aren't 10 worse films than this . ) 
and i know i wasn't the only one who really disliked this movie . 
as the audience was filing out of the screening , i loitered in the theater lobby to catch a few comments . 
the general consensus seemed to be that , although the movie sucked , the promotional key ring was cool . 
the problem is that fox won't be giving out key rings to regular movie-goers , so that nixes any reason to see firestorm . 

 " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics . 
and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it . 
the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) . 
he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do . 
as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama . 
there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate . 
so why did i enjoy it so much ? 
for one thing , the cast is great . 
kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role . 
we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort . 
yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be . 
and he never broods . 
the rest of the cast is equally impressive . 
john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian . 
but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter . 
by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character . 
another nice touch is the music . 
we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all . 
the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun . 
during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing . 
of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic . 
anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise . 
don't let the premise prevent you from watching it . 
it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 

perhaps the most dramatic changes in the motion picture industry in this decade have to do with special effects . 
there is no question that action-adventure and science-fiction/action movies are now judged by the character of their light and noise . 
whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years , such as raiders of the lost ark , were made in grand traditional fashion ; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion-dollar creations of computer technology . 
the latest in this visually awesome series of movies , the wachowski brothers' the matrix , is a testament to the skilled use of special effects and its ability to enhance a movie's story . 
unlike many sci-fi movies which promote themselves as effects-heavy blockbusters but fail to deliver on that promise , the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event . 
it runs 135 minutes in length and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose , and the quality of the effects remains constant throughout the film's length . 
contrary to popular trend , the matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light and sound . 
in this regard , the movie is something like a card sharp . 
with its flashy mass stripped away , the matrix would be quite shallow and untalented . 
the script is characteristically weak , and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approach . 
but , like the card sharp , the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent . 
the viewers don't care about what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right around the corner . 
and right around the corner they usually are , for the script tells a fast-paced , albeit frequently revisited story . 
as the movie explains , the world as we know it is nothing but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose of placating mankind . 
billions of human beings lie in this dormant state while the intelligence -- the matrix -- " farms " our life energy . 
only a select group of individuals knows of the " real " world , and a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra-cool morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) . 
morpheus and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo ( keanu reeves ) , believing he is a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix and return peace to earth . 
the cast plays out this story in stylish fashion . 
the set design is very dynamic , running the gambit between cramped and dreary to bright and airy . 
the costumes , as well as the actors who wear them , add to the roles . 
for instance , the manifested antagonists in the movie , a group of " agents " created by the matrix in its computer program , all dress in matching secret servicewear ; the rebel fighters , on the other hand , dress in rich hues of leather .