there's good news and bad news about mulan . 
the positive is that disney has found a happy medium between the heavy-handedness of pocahontas and the hunchback of notre dame and the childishness of hercules . 
on the other hand , the studio is pulling out all the stops on plot cliches and cheap laughs , several steps down from the days of the little mermaid and beauty and the beast . 
but mulan is a step in the right direction and disney's best animated feature since the lion king . 
after giving native americans a turn in pocahontas , disney has decided to turn a movie over to the asians . 
mulan is set in feudal china and features the ever-popular heroine who marches to a different drum and wants to do more with her life than get married . 
that's what we find out when young mulan ( voice of ming- na wen ) screws up her appointment with the matchmaker by letting a rogue cricket splash coffee all over her . 
cartoons . . . 
meanwhile , word comes from the emporer that one man from every family must join the army and help fight the huns . 
since mulan's a girl , that means her decrepit old father must go . 
she pleads with the soldiers to have mercy on dear old dad , but that kind of groveling and desperation brings shame on her family . 
that's chinese culture for you . . . 
so imagine how embarrassed the family is the next day when they find mulan has stolen her father's uniform and sword and run off to join the army in his place . 
the movie in a nutshell is about the stuggles of being a woman in the army . 
it should have been called g . i . 
chang . 
mulan calls on her ancestors for help . 
they decide to summon the large stone dragon in the backyard to protect her , but a mini dragon named mushu screws it up . 
voiced by eddie murphy , mushu continues the tradition of cute talking animal sidekicks who do more slapstick harm than good for their human charges . 
murphy's performance is a direct descendent of robin williams in aladdin -- lots of wisecracks and ad-libs and even an introductory song about how much fun they're going to have . 
you ain't never had a friend like mushu . 
speaking of songs , mulan doesn't have too many of them , which is a plus with a story like this . 
disney songs about war probably wouldn't go over too well ( " heigh ho , heigh ho , it's off to war i go . . . " ) , and the ones they do have aren't memorable . 
the best of the bunch , sad to say , is " be a man , " the requisite basic training montage song . 
yes , even in medieval china , they had to run through that web of car tires before they were ready for battle . 
sung by donnie osmond ( a bad sign if ever there was one ) , " be a man " accompanies footage of mulan's platoon going from screw-ups to heroes . 
it makes me wonder , has there ever been a musical montage in a movie that's ended badly ? 
i only wish real-life problems could be solved in two minutes with a peppy montage . 
for the curious , mulan does pass for a man in the army despite looking like a girl . 
all she does to transform herself is cut her hair to a sexy shoulder-length , talk macho and slap guys on the butt , as was male custom a thousand years ago in china . 
the deception fools everyone but the audience , who thinks she might be able to pass for a 12-year-old boy , at best . 
but she does manage to strike the biggest blows to the hun army , led by a big , evil-eyed attilla-looking monster . 
as a villain , the head of the huns is menacing , evil and entirely forgettable . 
i saw the movie yesterday and i don't remember the man's name . 
otherwise , mulan is a good movie . 
the animation of the characters themselves isn't as rich as it could and should be , but there are some amazing battlefield shots . 
eddie murphy pulls off some good one-liners , as do other star voices like harvey fierstein and pat morita , the quintessential asian movie star . 
hell , george " mr . sulu " takei does a voice in mulan . 
you get the sense disney said to themselves , " alright , let's get out there and find us some chinese americans in hollywood . 
who can you think of ? " 
 " well , there's mr . myagi . . . " 
 " good . " 
 " and mr . sulu . " 
 " perfect . 
we've got ourselves a movie now . " 
soon disney really _will_ be able to paint with all the colors of the wind . 

there's more to a quilt than fabric and thread--each patchwork design has its own unique story ( or stories ) to tell . 
in how to make an american quilt , the first hollywood release from australian director jocelyn moorhouse ( proof ) , we come to understand how the tales of the seven makers imbue their creation with passion and vitality . 
all the sorrows , joys , longings , sufferings , and loves of these women are sewn into their quilt and , as their bittersweet memories are given expression , one young woman applies these lessons of the past to her own uncertain future . 
motion pictures are filled with male bonding rituals ; how to make an american quilt presents a distinctly feminine alternative . 
the " quilting bee " consists of seven members : sisters gladys ( ann bancroft ) and hy ( ellen burstyn ) ; sophia ( lois smith ) , a woman known for frightening children ; emma ( jean simmons ) , the timid wife of a perpetually unfaithful man ; constance ( kate nelligan ) , who has been having an affair with emma's husband ; anna ( maya angelou ) , the leader of the group ; and marianna ( alfre woodard ) , anna's daughter . 
the project they're busy with is the wedding quilt for hy's granddaughter , finn ( winona ryder ) , who has just become engaged . 
she's spending the summer with hy and gladys , and away from her fiance , to decide whether a lifelong commitment is really what she wants , and whether it's better to marry a friend or a lover . 
one of the greatest pleasures of how to make an american quilt comes from watching an array of fine performances by an impressive ensemble cast . 
from winona ryder , ann bancroft , ellen burstyn , and maya angelou to minor players like rip torn , claire danes , and kate capshaw , this film is overflowing with realized talent . 
the performances are good enough , in fact , to cover up many of the script's weaknesses . 
how to make an american quilt is basically an unremarkable , if affecting , tale of love across the generations--a sort of truncated american version of the joy luck club , with a dash of fried green tomatoes added . 
there are probably too many characters . 
so , instead of really getting to know a few of them , we are presented with quick glimpses into a single defining event in each of their lives . 
we learn about the root of the smoldering resentment between gladys and hy , and are told the reasons why emma stays with her husband and sophia is so irascible . 
there are other episodes as well : the love of anna's life , marianna's soul mate , and a look at the reasons why constance entered into an affair with her friend's husband . 
the sum total of these tales is meant to provide the framework for finn's story : whether to go forward with her marriage or dally with a hunky stranger . 
there is no emotional epiphany in how to make an american quilt . 
the stories are all well-told , but it's difficult to really connect with the characters--their moments pass so quickly . 
while we certainly feel something for each of the eight principals , our emotional investment is tenuous . 
there isn't enough depth to pull the viewer in all the way , and many of the personalities and relationships feel half- formed , like a quilt with patches missing . 
to put it bluntly , while i enjoyed watching this film , it didn't " do much " for me . 
on the whole , how to make an american quilt is a nicely-understated drama that has a lot to say about love , passion , and monogamy in relationships . 
finn's segment is by far the most compelling , because she's the focal point : her actions are shaped by everyone else's experiences . 
the other patches of this american quilt are successful only to varying degrees . 
if there's a disappointment here , it's that the script doesn't have more resonance , but the privilege of seeing such a fine cast in top form allows a viewer to enjoy this picture even if the story is somewhat conventional . 

it rocks-actually , lots of rocks fly at us or from us , in slow or fast motion , at several points in the film . 
they seem like dangerous rocks because they kind of twirl through the air instead of just propelling forward , and when they land-once in a while , when we need a break from the space sequences-they cause damage enough to destroy the chrysler building and the like . 
 ( nary a mention of these apocalyptic events is made after they occur . ) 
they also just might be the most interesting element of armageddon , a steroid user's answer to deep impact . 
bruce willis stars as harry stamper , a famed oil-driller commissioned by the white house and nasa to stop a giant asteroid before it travels beyond " zero barrier " and destroys our planet . 
why an oil driller ? 
they require someone experience with deep-core mining to plant a nuclear missile into said asteroid . 
 ( in one unintentionally ( ? ) 
hilarious sequence , nasa asks harry to inspect a deep-core driller they built based on his blueprints ; it is poorly constructed-harry criticizes almost every aspect of it . 
we trust nasa to build space shuttles ? ) 
harry assembles the obligatory " ragtag " bunch of " cowboys " , including a blond guy , a fat guy , a black guy , a wiseass , and the man who is sleeping with his daughter ( affleck ) . 
once they reach space , we experience sequence after sequence of something going wrong-perhaps the fact that they sent a bunch of nincompoops into outer space has something to do with it ; i cannot count the number of times they almost fail the mission on all my fingers and toes . 
whether or not they save the day , i will not reveal . 
nor will you care . 
i will say this : you know you're in trouble when deep impact dwarfs your asteroid movie in terms of emotion and scope . 
willis has barely a chance to come alive ; ditto for affleck . 
their big scenes are mostly reserved for the third act , in a last minute-and futile-attempt to inject warmth into the material . 
steve buscemi's character-the wiseass-is exceptionally problematic . 
 " rockhound " , as he's called , is sarcastic and foolish , so they tape him to a chair , where he spends most of the film . 
so why did they bring him up there to begin with ? 
rather , why write him into the film ? -give 
his almost-witty one-liners to serious willis , who scowls and mopes and demonstrates psychotic tendencies : at one point he chases after affleck with his shotgun for screwing his daughter , firing often and causing significant damage to his oil rig . 
i'm guessing he qualifies under nasa guidelines as someone unfit for space travel , at least in my world where the sky is blue . 
liv tyler is pretty and humourless , as always ; suspiciously , four of her father's band's ( " aerosmith " ) songs grace the soundtrack . 
director michael bay lays the visual and sound effects on thick , like ketchup , eventually drowning the movie on-screen . 
 ( the middle hour is a non-sensical , pyrotechnic assault on the average primate's brain . ) 
whenever someone dies in this movie , a crew member inevitably yells out " we lost ( insert dead person's last name here ) ! " 
i must admit that not once could i distinguish a dead oil-guy-cum-astronaut from a live one , and close-ups of the corpses' faces beneath cracked helmets provided little assistance , as their skin was often covered in fake blood . 
armageddon is not as terrible movie as godzilla . 
it looks nicer , and has fewer plot-holes within its equally ludicrous framework . 
it has a vivid soundmix . 
but at almost two-and-a-half hours , i could not believe how little actually happened over the course of the story . 
the love story has been played up in the ads , perhaps hoping to catch people before they recover from titanic-fever . 
bollocks ! 
the lovers in the film are miles apart throughout-erase all thoughts of nude sketching or car-sex and replace them with obligatory shots of liv tyler tearing up while ben affleck dicks around in a moon-crawler . 
remember a little film called jaws ? 
in this film , three independent-minded men suddenly found themselves on a fishing boat in pursuit of a deadly shark . 
they didn't much like each other at first ; eventually , they started to respect one another . 
one of jaws' great scenes involved the would-be-ahabs drinking and singing songs and telling stories . 
this is the sort of male-bonding foreign to bay or his producer , jerry bruckheimer , who throw too many characters into the mix and expect we'll care about them on the grounds that the world is about to end . 
not once do we get the feeling that these characters are even acquaintances-i'd be surprised if these actors bothered to introduce themselves to one another before " action " was called . 
a male friend who loved the film suggested to me that perhaps i cannot relate to a bunch of men who don't bare their souls , who believe in dying macho concepts like heroism and a kind of chest-beating bravery . 
to this , i will respond that the boys in armageddon are neither heroic , nor brave , nor smart , even : this team couldn't build a birdhouse . 
and if i get no respect for disliking a movie with all the synthetic feeling of a trailer-a trailer for a movie written by a team of body-builders and greeting card authors-i've never been a prouder wimp my whole life . 

ingredients : little orphan boy , rural grandparents , mountains , native american lore 
synopsis : in this loving film portrayal of an idyllic and pivotal time that a young boy spends with grandpa and grandma , the self recollections of an unseen narrator focus on his world view as a tennessee orphan boy learning of his heritage through his grandparents . 
the setting is after the first world war , during the great depression years . 
a nine-year-old orphan named little tree ( joseph ashton ) is taken in and taught the wondrous ways of the woods by his caucasian moonshiner grandpa ( james cromwell ) and his native american grandma ( tantoo cardinal ) in the wilderness of the mountains of tennessee . 
here little tree learns an almost magical appreciation for nature and farm life - - and experiences beautiful and wondrous things such as the sunrise . 
everything is miraculous to a child . 
but it all comes crashing down for the boy when the u . s . government forcibly takes custody away from grandpa and grandma , and forces little tree to attend the notched gap boarding school , a kind of internment camp where multiracial cherokee kids are indoctrinated to dress , pray , speak , and think like white people or face solitary confinement and corporeal punishment . 
through his childhood experiences , little tree learns lessons about love , race , life , death , people , nature , and folk wisdom . 
opinion : this excellent , excellent family movie . 
it is one of those priceless screen gems that nobody knows about because it's not highly advertised . 
you won't find any formula schlock , cutesy characters , canned spirituality , sequel teasers or commercial tie ins , but you will find the education of little tree to be a refreshing , impeccably acted , original , wonderful , and touching film . 
take the whole family and bring a box of tissues for the tearjerkers . 
this one's as good as old yeller . 

urban legend surprised me . 
based on the last few films the genre has produced ( including but not exclusive to the likes of i know what you did last summer , disturbing behavior and the disappointing halloween : h20 ) , i was positive that i was in store for another mildly entertaining but silly and ultimately boring rehash of the scream phenomena . 
thankfully , legend rose above it's soggy premise to become not only a hip , scary and stylish entertainment , but also what will probably become one of the best films of the year . 
you're all familiar with the plot ; a bunch of overly horny teenagers get systematically slaughtered by a masked maniac who's identity is not revealed until the closing moments of the film when it turns out to be , you guessed it ; everybody's favorite veteran of the whodunit flicks . . . the 
only person you didn't suspect ! 
however , just because legend doesn't really break any new ground as far as literary or even technical achievements go does not mean that it can't qualify as first-class entertainment . 
it was , believe it or not , one of the funnest times i've had at the movies all year . 
the thing is , i'm not really sure what made this particular stab ( pardon the pun ) at the genre seem so fresh and alive . 
maybe it was the above-par performances by the movie's two leads ( jared leto and " cybil " actress alicia witt ) . 
or , it could have been the on- target direction by jamie blanks . 
more likely , though , it was because of the inspired premise . 
i don't think i need to tell you that a killer hacking people up ala urban folklore is much more frightening than a killer fisherman . 
urban legend begins with a sequence that reminded me of the classic scream opener , not so much in plotting as in attention to detail that makes for an absolutely chilling teaser for the rest of the film . 
a pretty young coed is driving down a deserted road when ( gasp ! ) a gas problem ( hee-hee ) forces her to stop at an equally deserted gas station for a refill . 
one problem , though . 
would you want to stop at a station run by brad dourif ? 
i thought not . 
predictably , the attendant ends up coaxing her into the main building to sort out a problem with the credit card company . 
it's odd , though , when you pick up a phone to realize that nobody's on the other line . 
naturally , the potential victim escapes into her car and drives off . 
and the when we least expect it . . . whack ! ! ! 
a decapitation . 
it turns out that the creepy looking attendant was just trying to warn her about the maniac in the back seat of the car . 
so who is it this time ? 
the obvious candidate is the slightly off-kilter professor at the college the girl went to ( none other than freddy kruger himself , robert englund ) , who teaches a class on urban legends . 
a-ha . 
or could it be the fame-hungry local journalist ( leto ) looking for a meaty story to put on his resume ? 
like all movies of this nature , one of the chief pleasures is trying to guess whodunit . 
and it turns out to be , of course , the one you didn't suspect . 
i'm not going to pretend urban legend is anything more than it is , but i must give credit where credit is due . 
and this flick definitely deserves credit for being what not many other recent horror films have been . . . fun . 
 * complimentary movie ticket courtesy of valley cinemas in lodi , ca 

richard gere can be a commanding actor , but he's not always in great films . 
everything comes together here . 
gere is a big time chicago defense attorney who takes on a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even more publicity . 
it doesn't go exactly as he expects . 
gere's client , aaron ( edward norton ) , is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who is accused of brutally murdering and mutilating a catholic archbishop . 
the evidence is stacked against him . 
he was caught running from the scene covered in the bishop's blood . 
his bloody footprints are all over the murder scene . 
he has a relationship with the priest . 
gere talks to the boy , believes that he is actually innocent and sets about finding the real killer . 
despite the lawyer's proclamations that he doesn't care about the guilt of his clients and that the real thrill is gambling with people's lives , he becomes involved with aaron and is determined to free him . 
lots of complications and twists . 
the prosecuting attorney is gere's former co-worker and lover . 
they both work each other's motives to their legal advantages and it gets messy . 
her boss had major economic dealings with the archbishop that went sour and seems to have crime connections . 
aaron gets weirder and weirder as the trial goes on . 
gere's case is falling apart and he is faced with about a dozen ethical dilemmas . 
gere is exceptional as the well-dressed reserved counselor , but just once , i wanted to see him kick back and come out of his " suit " persona . 
even when he loses it , you don't see very far inside . 
norton's aaron is convincing : he comes across as the backwoods kid misplaced in the big city . 
the supporting cast does a fine job of holding together the story . 
as with most of the effective courtroom dramas , the cinematography is crisp and rich . 
the story will keep you on the edge of your seat . 
nothing is what it seems . 

some concepts seem patently hopeless from the beginning , a live-action version of mr . 
magoo being a prime example . 
the cartoon figure mr . magoo , the bumbling blind man , can be quite funny , but only in small doses and only within the confines of animated images . 
if you think naked gun star leslie nielsen is a dubious choice to play the role of the short guy who runs into walls , you are right , but there is an even more astonishing selection . 
for a director they tapped hong kong's stanley tong , whose resume consists mainly of a handful of movies featuring martial arts expert jackie chan . 
the story , such that there is one , is about a large , stolen ruby , which looks a woolworth reject . 
mr . magoo gets it and , of course , does not realize he has it . 
mayhem then ensues as the bad and the good guys chase each other with mr . magoo frequently oblivious to the fact that anyone is being chased . 
like home alone 3 but without any class , mr . 
magoo can only be described as painfully bad . 
fifteen minutes of it feels like an eternity . 
the movie's humor is pathetically lame , and the pacing is way off . 
when one is stuck in a theater for an hour and a half watching what claims to be a motion picture , one looks for some solace . 
mr . 
magoo provides only three such moments . 
the movie begins and ends with the classic cartoon version of the character , who exudes his usual charm . 
the only other saving grave in the movie itself is angus , the sweet little bulldog . 
angus demonstrates more genuine emotions and a wider acting range than any of the humans in the picture . 
finally , the ending credits contain outtakes of the movie , which have some of the genuineness and spontaneity that the movie badly lacked . 
rather than attempt to adapt mr . magoo to a non-cartoon movie , nielsen makes the strategic mistake of trying to literally be a human version of the cartoon . 
he has trouble sustaining the squinting eyes and the affected voice , and even when he does it comes off as awkwardly unfunny . 
my wife managed to get some sleep during the movie , but i was not so lucky . 
hopefully , this picture will force producers to think harder about which subjects have promise and which do not . 
mr . magoo runs 1 : 37 . 
it is rated pg for comic violence and would be acceptable for all ages . 
my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the movie was good and really funny , but recommends you not choose it if you want an action movie . 
he said he liked home alone 3 much more . 
his friend maxim , age 9 , said that he thought it was good but very silly and parts did not make sense . 
his other friend nickolas , age 8 , said he'd give the movie * * * 1/2 , but that it was really silly . 

i rented " brokedown palace " last night blind , having heard nothing about it beforehand , and i enjoyed it immensely despite some flaws . 
for anyone wishing to have the same experience i would suggest reserving judgement of the movie until viewing it in its entirety . 
that is no easy task . 
superficially , it bears an unfortunate ( and not necessarily unintended ) resemblance to several other movies , notably " return to paradise " and " midnight express . " 
as a result nearly every review of " brokedown palace " i subsequently read became hopelessly entangled in making the obvious comparisons . 
the consequence was nearly universal condemnation , which is a shame as this is a fine film . 
for those who have yet to view the movie , let me say that it is not an attempt to portray the nightmarish reality of the third world criminal justice system ( as was " midnight express " ) nor completely the moral dilemma and examination of the meaning of friendship and humanity that was the heart of " return to paradise . " 
in my view , if this film is to be compared to any other source it would have to be joseph conrad's acclaimed novel , " lord jim . " 
problematically , the basic storyline seems more than familiar : two american teenage girls on vacation are sentenced to spend most of their lives in a thai prison for drug smuggling in an obvious set-up involving a suave con-man , a shadowy criminal conspiracy and a corrupt third world " justice " system . 
the girls are alice ( claire danes ) and darlene ( kate beckinsale ) . 
they're life-long buddies who planned a high-school graduation trip to hawaii , and then secretly changed their destination to the more exotic thailand without telling their parents . 
once there , they find a $6 hotel and go sight-seeing , which includes sneaking into a luxury hotel to sip expensive drinks poolside . 
they get caught trying to charge the bill to the wrong room , a minor transgression which will later come back to haunt them , but they are saved from hotel security by a charming , friendly australian , nick ( daniel lapaine ) , who takes care of the bill with a more polished execution of the girl's scam . 
he then proceeds to separate the girls and make smooth moves , first toward alice , then toward darlene . 
by now alarm bells are going off among viewers . 
the ever-present nick is too slick and his stories don't add up ( to us ) --the girls , of course , are too naive to notice . 
long before it happens , we're anticipating the inevitable disappearance of the fast-talking smuggler and the arrest of our teenaged sitting-ducks at the airport en route to hong kong caught holding the bag ( literally ) containing heroin . 
just as predictably , the thai police and courts do their part in meting out injustice and our trusting tourists are prison-bound for a long stretch . 
left unanswered is the red herring issue of whether one or the other of the girls was a willing accomplice . 
for those in need of a ready answer , might i suggest closer scrutiny of the bell hop at the girl's fleabag hotel . 
as one door after another to their comfortable former life is closed , the girls and their families turn in desperation to the noiresque expatriate lawyer/fixer " yankee hank " ( bill pullam ) and his thai-born partner-wife . 
a recurring element of the movie is the tension between appearance and reality as expressed in one of the film's tag lines , " who do you trust ? , " and hank is no exception although seasoned movie- goers and those familiar with pullman's oeuvre will find few surprises . 
much of the remainder of the movie is a smorgasbord of intriguing themes incompletely explored in short-hand fashion . 
lou diamond phillips , for instance , plays a delightfully sinister and callous dea agent who , while appearing to be casually accommodating to hank , withholds vital information at crucial moments . 
is he part of a wider conspiracy ? 
with an inherently powerful , if somewhat tired premise , the film offers by parts a riveting courtroom drama , a prison story , and a potential character study of american teens , their relationship , and what constitutes friendship between them . 
the result is reasonably engaging and suspenseful , with the girls' interaction , hank's investigation , and the various trials and hearings , offering hope for their release , delivering tension--as does the foredoomed possibility of their escape . 
if " brokedown palace " has a major flaw , it is its creators' tendency , like time-constrained tourists , to take frequent side trips down fascinating alleys only to reverse direction half-way down and return to the story's main avenue . 
and , if that were all there was to " brokedown palace , " it wouldn't be a very good movie . 
but i believe the writers and director were after bigger game and , in this , they succeeded . 
for the main theme of the movie , like the proffered name of its location , is freedom--in all its permutations . 
ultimately , the other sub-themes may be considered window dressing . 
young and pretty , alice ( danes ) is an old soul ; a wild , streetwise teenager with a thirst for freedom and adventure . 
presented as a perfect blend of yin and yang , dark and light , is her cautious best friend , darlene ( beckinsale ) . 
clear-eyed and straightforward , alice is more complex than her friend . 
she comes from a poorer background , has a reputation for getting into trouble and has lost the trust of everyone ( including her own father ) . 
whereas darlene's life is " on-track , " aimed at college , marriage , kids , a career , a suburban home , middle age and " fulfillment , " alice's is uncertain , unfocused , and yearning . 
one poignant scene in the film shows darlene shouting across an open moat to visitors--friends and relatives from home , whose lives continue while hers is in limbo . 
tellingly , alice is present but not included . 
just as revealing of their different personalities , when alice and dar first come to thailand , the openness and delight on alice's face doesn't read as simple naivet ? ; the way she stands up and stretches as she and her friend ride along in a small boat , reaching toward the sun , she really is drinking in what she believes to be freedom , while " dar " remains seated in the shade . 
 " brokedown palace " begins with an admission by alice of her guilt in a tape recording sent to hank . 
however unintentional , it's all alice's fault . 
she's responsible for persuading her friend to lie to her parents , to sneak away from the safety of hawaii to the perils of thailand , to try the petty scam which places them in the clutches of the evil nick . 
 ( in case one misses this point in the inevitable confusion of a film's beginning , darlene obligingly reminds alice of her culpability in prison . ) 
dar , of course , is the willing dupe which , in her view , confers innocence . 
never mind that it was her coercion of a reluctant alice to accompany her to hong kong which placed them in police custody in the first place or that her naive confession sealed their fate . 
dar is innocent . 
it doesn't matter . 
alice is the subject of this movie . 
she and her journey toward personal freedom . 
along the way we are treated to an unsympathetic portrait of the shallow american culture which created these girls with their half-baked sensibilities and materialistic goals . 
in the end , that culture , like its representatives , " yankee " hank and dar's father ( a " man who knows how to grease the wheels " ) , proves as impotent as its government in the face of the girl's tragedy . 
thailand's culture , contrary to most opinion , comes off much better by comparison . 
it amazes me that reviewers argued this point at both extremes . 
i believe the filmmaker's view was that thai culture is vastly different from the american but not necessarily inferior . 
the thai ( with the sole exceptions of a corrupt official and a spiteful prison spy ) were uniformly consistent in their behavior and true to their principles . 
the girls were shown to be treated no better but certainly no worse than the native-born . 
their prison ( in stark contrast to the probable reality ) was no hellhole , being relatively clean and sunlit . 
the prison authorities demanded good hygiene , provided medical care when needed , and " hard manual labor " consisted of picking grass ! 
the thai guards were authoritarian ( what else ? ) but certainly not routinely sadistic . 
as for the thai justice system , the reasoning of the thai judges , during both an appeal hearing and in the film's penultimate scene was devastating in its logic and morality . 
'freedom' has many faces and " brokedown palace " explores many of them . 
in the extreme , we have freedom of the body and freedom of the spirit . 
some settle for the former alone while others remain imprisoned with an entire nation to roam without the latter . 
but freedom seldom comes without a price . 
which is why the movie's other tag lines are : " what is your dream ? " 
and " how far would you go ? " 
i believe i could make a good case for the interpretation that the person who attains freedom , incarcerated or not , by film's end is alice . 
she finds redemption and salvation through the acceptance of personal responsibility . 
i think the light bathing only her figure among the assembled prisoners in the final scene visually signals that fact . 
kate beckinsale's character might more properly be likened to the " released " temple bird referred to twice during the film , " trained to fly back to its cage . " 
as the thai magistrate observed in the film's climactic scene , the issue was always one of " character ; " and the jamaican prisoner made it clear that " freedom " is achieved within oneself . 
if one thinks back over the movie , which character was transformed by their experiences ? 
increasingly , the cinema landscape seems to have become littered with endless permutations of 'kung fu woman'--female characters virtually indistinguishable from male action figures . 
here , at last , is the story of a modern heroine . 
in reading the many user's comments , i was struck by what seems an unusual phenomenon : whether or not a person liked the movie , almost everyone praised the actors . 
think about that . 
when was the last time you came away from a motion picture possibly hating it , but raving about all the performances in it ? 
do yourself a favor : rent " brokedown palace " and watch it with a open mind . 
there's more there than meets the eye . 

you've got to love disney . 
no matter what they serve up , it is a guaranteed success as long as it's animated . 
kids have to go see the movie . 
then they have to get the toys . 
oh , the video came out ? 
got to buy it , or risk little billy's temper tantrums for the next month . 
all of this culminates in the childhood equivalent of a pilgrimage to mecca : a visit to the magic kingdom . 
stay at the disneyland hotel ! 
buy a disney t-shirt ! 
eat an ice cream mickey mouse on a stick ! 
it's both a vertical and horizontal monopoly when you think about it . 
dale carnegie should have had it so good . 
what's most amazing is that all this success is in spite of a severe lack of originality . 
you see , disney animated features these days have two components : theme and plot . 
the theme changes with each new movie ; the plot does not . 
the plot is a mold into which the characters of some ancient fable are dropped , and try as they might to rise above the characters of previous features , they are nearly always destined to do no more than the same . 
however , while the success of a disney animated feature is generally a given as far as box-office receipts , merchandising dollars , and glimmers in the eyes of little children , critically they are as varied as anything else that hollywood has to offer . 
luckily , disney's latest animated offering , mulan , manages to be engaging and refreshing , even while rife with formula . 
the film starts with the invasion of ancient china by the huns , led by the imposing shan-yu ( miguel ferrer ) . 
soon , china's emperor ( pat morita ) mobilizes his armies and decrees that one male from each family in the country shall serve to fight in china's defense . 
when the fa family is served notice , it is the elderly father , fa zhou ( soon-tek oh ) who must answer the call , as there are no other males in the household . 
fearing her father will surely be killed in battle , fa mulan ( ming-na wen ) disguises herself as a man and sneaks off with the royal orders to join the chinese army . 
mulan , based on a chinese epic poem , is a classic tale of the triumph of the ugly duckling . 
mulan herself is a disgrace to her loving family , as she has a difficult time fitting into the traditional woman's role , and in a very amusing scene where a matchmaker attempts to assess her value to a potential husband , we see that " grace " is not one of her strong points . 
very early on , we are presented with the high importance of bringing honor to one's family , and by botching her chance at gaining the favor of the matchmaker , mulan fails at that task . 
by leaving home to fight in her father's place , she may not only spare his life , but bring honor , too . 
as is the case with most disney musicals , the songs are first rate and pervasive throughout the film . 
i'm not sure if they will get much airplay , but at least one of the songs will no doubt receive recognition come oscar time . 
both lea salonga , who provides the singing voice for mulan , and donny osmond who sings for shang , the captain of mulan's army unit and obligatory love interest , are more than competent , although salonga's voice translates much better to animation . 
you have to hear it to understand . 
interestingly , the musical numbers which are so often done with big flourishes are surprisingly muted in mulan . 
there is no significantly big number , which is customary as the second or third song in a disney film , but this does not detract significantly from the rest of the movie . 
it is , however , an expectation which has been built by disney's own formulaic history , and some viewers may feel as if something is missing . 
artistically , the animators have chosen to adopt the more subdued pastels of chinese artwork , and although this may not live up to the vibrance so associated with many of the other disney works , it helps to contribute a more authentic , and therefore more credible , nature to what otherwise may be seen as a typically " disneyfied " ethnic tale . 
there are also a couple of visually standout scenes , one involving the charge of shan-yu's hun army , which utilizes the same computer-enhanced imagery disney animators have employed since the chandelier in beauty and the beast . 
the other scene worth mentioning is so quick you might miss it . 
when mulan resolves to take her father's place , she dons her father's old battle armor , and unsheathes a sword . 
as she does so , you can see her reflection in the polished metal . 
it just left me thinking , " that was really cool . " 
a wonderful range of performances delight the audience throughout the film , varying from the straight , such as soon-tek oh as fa zhou , to the comical , such as harvey fierstein as yao , a gruff , pugilistic member of shang's conscripted army . 
even more outrageous is eddie murphy as mushu , the diminutive guardian dragon sent to look after mulan . 
although an obvious attempt to relive the chemistry brought forth by robin williams in aladdin , murphy nevertheless distinguishes himself with his own winning performance . 
i found the choice of b . d . 
wong as shang a little strange ( you may remember him as martin short's wedding planner assistant in the father of the bride ) , but they used robbie benson for the voice of the beast in beauty and the beast , so i guess anything's possible . 
in any event , wong performs admirably as well . 
one character which provides a significant amount of humor is grandmother fa . 
she deserves recognition not only because of the levity she brings to the movie , but also because she is voiced by two very remarkable people . 
june foray , who supplies grandmother fa's speaking voice , is a venerable voice actress who may be best known for her work as rocky the squirrel and natasha fatale ( as in boris and natasha ) . 
marni nixon , who provides grandmother fa's singing voice , is the same vocalist who dubbed the voices for anna in the king and i , maria in west side story , and eliza in my fair lady . 
with this in mind , hearing grandmother fa is like listening to a little piece of history . 
mulan is the latest disney animated feature to get away from some of the eurocentrism which for so long dominated disney films . 
in an effort to be culturally sensitive ( and to avoid a " miss saigon " -type debacle ) , disney has also wisely chosen to employ many asian-american actors for both lead and supporting roles . 
in addition to the actors already mentioned , the cast includes such ubiquitous talents as james hong , gedde watanabe , james shigeta , and george takei . 
i guess clyde kusatsu wasn't available . 
at a running time of slightly under an hour and a half , mulan moves quickly and provides solid entertainment for both children and , happily , adults . 
this is the kind of disney feature that makes you wonder what they will do next , rather than hope that the next one is better . 

in zoolander , the world's most successful , influential and intellectually-challenged male model derek zoolander wonders , " is there more to life than being really really really good looking ? " 
obviously , the film's creator and star ben stiller asked a similar question when crafting a feature-length movie out of his hilarious vh1/vogue fashion awards short-film subject : can there be more to this film than being really really really silly ? 
no , of course not , and it never aspires to be anything more . 
much like derek , zoolander is a sweet simpleton of a movie . 
it's not complex in either its social commentary or its comedy , and it never produces any gut-busting laughs ( except maybe a scene when derek's model roommates all die in a tragic " gasoline fight " accident -- a riotously funny take-off of tommy hilfiger ads ) . 
but it has a satisfying handful of strong chuckles , wild characters and performances , and mildly harsh potshots at the fashion industry to keep you amused . 
better yet , this exaggerated version of the original three-minute skit is only blown out to an efficient 95 minutes -- just enough time to string together its goofball plot without exhausting the gag . 
zoolander opens with several fashion bigwigs plotting to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , since he wants to abolish child labor in his country and thus driving up their costs . 
fashion designer and criminal mastermind jacobim mugatu ( will ferrell ) drafts a plan to brainwash the dumbest fashion model to carry out the evil deed . 
enter derek , whose career is slumping as newcomer hansel ( owen wilson ) takes the spotlight . 
on the trail of mugatu's plot is time magazine reporter matilda jeffries ( stiller's real-life wife christine taylor ) , and she's hoping to use mugatu's pawn derek to ultimately foil the scheme . 
much like the austin powers films , zoolander relies heavily on the strength of the talent involved , and this zany comedy features some of the funniest people in entertainment today . 
wilson is hysterical as the young , vain hansel . 
ferrell nearly steals the show from everyone as the flamboyant , freakish mugatu in the same way dr . evil upstages everyone in austin powers . 
jerry stiller -- ben's dad who's best remembered as frank costanza of seinfeld -- makes a priceless turn as derek's slimy agent maury ballstein . 
even ben stiller show alum andy dick shows up as a deranged , large-assed masseuse . 
as for ben stiller , it seems his derek has one gag : he's stupid , which plays out in some uproarious one-liners . 
unfortunately , taylor seems out of place and out of her league here . 
maybe it's just because i can't stop seeing her as marcia brady ( who she played in both brady movies ) , making her unbelievable as a dowdy , brainy plain jane who hasn't had sex in two years . 
she leaves me pining for the cynicism of janeane garofolo , who would've added real comic substance to the flimsy role . 
while zoolander is hardly highbrow , its screwball humor is welcome during these trying times , especially considering the gross lack of decent pickings in the theaters these days . 
zoolander's no masterpiece , but a very worthy distraction . 

fantastically over hyped , godzila finally lumbers onto the big screen . 
the film opens with footage of nuclear testing on the french polynesian islands , then an attack on a boat from some beast , and finally we join dr . nick tatopoulos ( broderick looking about 17 years old ) doing some research in chernobyl . 
some shady u . s government guys appear , and ask him to come to an island where they have massive footprints , from what looks like a giant lizard . 
and what's more , this beast is heading for new york . 
gulp ! 
although godzilla should be a non stop roller coaster ride , and at some points it is , there is something curiously uninvolving and unexciting about this movie . 
the main faults lie with the acting and writing , common problems with 'summer blockbuster' movies . 
broderick is pretty useless as the hero , with no humour or a 'tough guy' image . 
while emmerich's previous summer flick , independence day ( 1996 ) had wisecracks and action from jeff goldblum and will smith , this has neither . 
also , maria pitillo , as broderick's former girlfriend , is just as useless , with a chronic disability in acting . 
she's incapable of showing emotion , speaks every line in the same way , and basically she's total crap . 
it's up to french actor jean reno to save the day , and indeed he does , turning in a campy performance as a french secret agent . 
shame he has such little screen time in such a overlong film . 
hank azaria also turns up as a crazy cameraman named 'animal' , and he adds a little life to the picture . 
also making an appearance is harry shearer ( probably best know for doing voices in the simpsons ) as a slimy news reporter . 
o . k , so the acting is not up to par , but it never is in these movies . 
but what about the script ? 
well , that's not up to par either . 
emmerich and screenwriting pal dean devlin seem so caught in the destruction of new york city that they forgot to write a script . 
the dialogue is banal ( broderick looks at a lot of fish and utters 'that's a lot of fish . ' ) , and the character development is non existent ( reno plays the typical frenchman ( 'no croissant ? ' ) , 
broderick forever remains a geeky scientist . ) 
also , the film is seriously lacking a sense of humour . 
the jokes that are uttered are pathetic , and there's an 'hilarious' running gag about siskel and ebert . 
 ( the mayor is mayor ebert , and is assistant is called gene ! 
ha ha ha ha ! . ) 
the plot is dire , and in the end just rips off jurassic park ( 1993 ) by having lots of baby godzilla's ( i . e . 
velicorapters ) running around new york . 
right , so the script and acting suck . 
but what about the special effects ? 
thankfully , they're are quite good . 
godzilla is an impressive piece of cgi , although we don't see much of him because the movie is so dark . 
the destruction of new york is pretty well done aswell . 
but although they are impressive , they can't save godzilla from being an hugely disappointing and boring movie . 
the movie goes on for far too long aswell , and it can't seem to decide on a ending . 
and of course , the ending itself leaves possibility for a sequel . 
let's just hope one never arrives . 

every now and then a movie comes along from a suspect studio , with every indication that it will be a stinker , and to everybody's surprise ( perhaps even the studio ) the film becomes a critical darling . 
mtv films' _election , a high school comedy starring matthew broderick and reese witherspoon , is a current example . 
did anybody know this film existed a week before it opened ? 
the plot is deceptively simple . 
george washington carver high school is having student elections . 
tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an over-achiever with her hand raised at nearly every question , way , way , high . 
mr . " m " ( matthew broderick ) , sick of the megalomaniac student , encourages paul , a popular-but-slow jock to run . 
and paul's nihilistic sister jumps in the race as well , for personal reasons . 
the dark side of such sleeper success is that , because expectations were so low going in , the fact that this was quality stuff made the reviews even more enthusiastic than they have any right to be . 
you can't help going in with the baggage of glowing reviews , which is in contrast to the negative baggage that the reviewers were likely to have . 
_election , a good film , does not live up to its hype . 
what makes _election_ so disappointing is that it contains significant plot details lifted directly from _rushmore_ , released a few months earlier . 
the similarities are staggering : 
tracy flick ( _election_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
max fischer ( _rushmore_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
the most significant tension of _election_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
the most significant tension of _rushmore_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
tracy flick is from a single parent home , which has contributed to her drive . 
max fischer is from a single parent home , which has contributed to his drive . 
the male bumbling adult in _election_ ( matthew broderick ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he even gets a bee sting . 
the male bumbling adult in _rushmore_ ( bill murray ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he gets several bee stings . 
and so on . 
what happened ? 
how is it that an individual screenplay ( _rushmore_ ) and a novel ( _election_ ) contain so many significant plot points , and yet both films were probably not even aware of each other , made from two different studios , from a genre ( the high school geeks revenge movie ) that hadn't been fully formed yet ? 
even so , the strengths of _election_ rely upon its fantastic performances from broderick , witherspoon , and newcomer jessica campbell , as paul's anti-social sister , tammy . 
broderick here is playing the mr . rooney role from _ferris bueller_ , and he seems to be having the most fun he's had since then . 
witherspoon is a revelation . 
it's early in the year , it's a comedy , and teenagers have little clout , but for my money , witherspoon deserves an oscar nomination . 
and once campbell's character gets going , like in her fantastic speech in the gymnasium , then you're won over . 
one thing that's been bothering me since i've seen it . 
there is an extraordinary amount of sexuality in this film . 
i suppose that , coming from mtv films , i should expect no less . . . 
but the film starts off light and airy , like a sitcom . 
as the screws tighten , and the tensions mount , alexander payne decides to add elements that , frankly , distract from the story . 
it is bad enough that mr . m doesn't like tracy's determination to win at all costs , but did they have to throw in the student/teacher relationship ? 
even so , there's no logical reason why mr . m has an affair when he does . 
there's a lot to like in _election_ , but the plot similarities to _rushmore_ , and the tonal nosedive it takes as it gets explicitly sex-driven , mark this as a disappointment . 

look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end ! 
i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse ! 
unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it . 
van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . ) 
without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck . 
being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . ) 
director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . ) 
the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time . 
suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original . 
sadly , that did not occur . 
it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen . 
in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression ! 
from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully ! 
mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i . 
jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point . 
sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it . 
mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory . 
anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen . 
at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast . 
the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates . 
he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice . 
the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk . 
there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film . 
van sant has made a boring film . 
all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now . 
what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite . 
van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? ) 
these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter . 
definitely not hitchcock's intention ! 
at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score . 
if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point . 
aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience . 
there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting . 
in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 

a month ago i wrote that speed 2 was the worst film i've ever reviewed on paper . 
i didn't know at the time that i'd soon encounter and despise batman & robin , which has just overtaken speed 2 as the picture least worthy of your attention this summer . 
as directed by joel schumacher ( who now specializes in batman sequels and john grisham adaptations and isn't very good at either ) , b & r is one long excuse for a taco bell promotion . 
the plot , which has mr . freeze and poison ivy ( uma thurman ) planning to take over gotham city and then " the vorld " ( as an oddly ineffective schwarzenegger states ) , is weighted down by repetitive asides about the nature of trust , partnership , blah , blah , blah . 
but morals are not the point of this film--topping each bloated , confusing action scene with next one is . 
the garish art direction and overlit cinematography make this picture oddly comparable to the trashy showgirls . 
since when did gotham city become a giant las vegas hotel ? 
only george clooney comes out on top ; he underplays nicely and pretends like he's in a real movie . 

virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre . 
since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another . 
the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix . 
all the films released after it , have been less successful . 
david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone . 
and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored . 
i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again . 
it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' . 
however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture . 
matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story . 
existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness . 
'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between . 
instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding . 
in a near future . . . on 
the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real . 
right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered . 
douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth . 
a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence . 
the first " download into simulation " is impressive . 
it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation . 
in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person . 
this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen . 
they start to doubt in their own sanity . 
these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives . 
it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy . 
with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present . 
our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal . 
the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile . 
this contrast demonstrates a wish for change . 
virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities . 
to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences . 
for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past . 
virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life . 
at least that's how it is all beginning . 
but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise . 
this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness . 
some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ? 
what is thought ? 
who are we ? 
if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made . 
they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner . 
the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes . 
kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties . 
there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time . 
a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects . 
there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion . 
this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking . 
this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased . 
this film is interesting and inspiring . 
it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix . 
and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context . 
the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' . 
with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality . 

the blues brothers was a wonderful film , a hilarious comedy packed with good music . 
it cried out for a sequel , but john belushi's untimely death seemed to eliminate the idea . 
however , eighteen years have passed , and the long dormant sequel has finally emerged . 
unfortunately , it's a sequel not worthy of the original . 
the film starts exactly eighteen years after the first one ended . 
elwood blues ( dan aykroyd ) is just getting out of jail , his brother jake having recently died . 
as in the first film , he first visits mother mary stigmata ( kathleen freeman ) and then sets about getting the band back together . 
john belushi's absence leaves a terrible hole in the film , and although three new characters are created to fill the void , it is still very noticeable . 
first , there's cabel ( joe morton ) the illegitimate son of elwood's stepfather ( played by cab calloway in the first movie ) . 
cabel is reluctant to join his destiny , and spends most of the movie as an illinois sheriff , chasing the blues brothers band . 
next , there's mighty mack ( john goodman ) , a bartender who becomes the new lead singer of the band . 
finally , there's buster ( j . 
evan bonifant ) , a ten year old orphan who tags along with elwood and eventually joins the band . 
the plotting of the film is hardly original . . . it 
seems to be almost a clone of the original . 
elwood has to go to reluctantly retrieve each member of the band , they then travel , while being pursued by the police , and perform at several odd stops until they finally reach the big concert finale . 
the first film had neo-nazis as the random element , this time around , the russian mafia and a militia group fill their role . 
in fact , the duplication of the plot is so ridiculously complete that certain scenes are practically identical to the original . 
remember the classic performance at country bob's ( where they like both types of music : country and western ) from the first movie ? 
well , this movie has a performance at a country fair , where the band is expected to play bluegrass music . 
there's the massive police car pileup , although this time the gag falls completely flat . 
there's even an exact replica of the conversion scene in the church of reverend cleophus ( james brown ) . 
there are plenty of recurring characters too . 
in addition to mother stigmata and reverend cleophus , aretha franklin reprises her role as mrs . murphy . 
frank oz , a prison guard in the first film , makes an appearance here as the prison warden . 
as the stars , the new blues brothers don't live up to their legacy . 
aykroyd is more loquacious , yet much flatter as elwood . 
john goodman barely has a character as mighty mack . 
joe morton has the deepest character , but not a terribly interesting one , as cab . 
and what's the deal with the orphan ? 
it plays like a desperate gimmick that doesn't mesh at all with the rest of the film . 
at least bonifant isn't as precocious as he could have been in the role . 
but the true star , and the only saving grace , of the film is the music . 
and the film is packed with it ( even during and after the ending credits ) . 
although there are no brilliant mergers of comedy and song as in the original's rawhide/stand by your man medley , the music is very much enjoyable . 
to top it off , the film is packed to the gills with cameo musician appearances . 
b . b . king , blues traveler , eric clapton , travis tritt , wilson pickett , erykah badu , bo diddley and steve winwood are just a sampling of the multitude of stars that make an appearance here and there . 
unfortunately , the music pauses here and there to allow in the familiar plot . 
if simply copying the original blues brothers wasn't bad enough , writers aykroyd and john landis dumb it down , removing any memorable characters , and replacing them with flashy , but unbelievable , magical gimmicks . 
it's a shame . 
buy the soundtrack and avoid the film . 
better yet , rewatch the original . . . you'll 
have a much better time . 

you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and 
it's not a comedy ! 
and what a strange career path for director chuck russell . 
he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three . 
he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that . 
so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ? 
strange dude and one crappy flick . 
plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god . 
a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well , 
save her from those damn devil worshippers ! 
enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here . 
critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot . 
what's good about this movie ? 
well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around . 
the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much . 
and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability . 
for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is 
a dumb one ! 
add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ? 
at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie . 
and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ? 
did they owe the director a favor or something ? 
together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs . 
the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime ! 
uuuhmm . . . how's 
about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? ! 
anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) . 
and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ? 
difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly . 
either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film . 
but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well , 
drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 

you don't look at a ren ? magritte painting and search for a deeper meaning . 
you likewise don't look at one for 88 minutes straight . 
surrealist works are notable for their quirks , and they are fun , but looking at one quirk for an hour and a half is exhausting . 
that was my experience with i woke up early the day i died , a surrealistic , hyperactive comedy with no dialogue . 
it's not a silent movie ; there is lots of atmospheric music , occasional screams and weird sound effects , but nobody ever utters an audible word . 
though the film is distinctive , its unique style wore thin after about 20 minutes , and as it progressed , watching became a chore . 
the only reason the script ever got filmed is because it was written by the pseudo-legendary ed wood , the man behind such " classics " as plan 9 >from outer space and night of the ghouls . 
the joke , of course , is that his films are so bad , they're good ; so humorous in their inanity that they become hits . 
i woke up early the day i died , unfortunatly , is so bad that it's really bad . 
it stars billy zane ( titanic ) as a dangerous lunatic who overpowers a nurse , escapes from a mental hospital and proceeds to wonder around , stealing a car , clothes , and a load of money . 
our thief reaches a cemetery , where he witnesses a bizarre ritual . 
he falls asleep and finds himself , literally , in a hole , with his money gone . 
for whatever reason , he is bent on getting his hard-unearned cash back ( considering how easily he stole it the first time , why didn't he just go steal some more ? ) . 
he comes upon a list of the people who were at the mysterious ceremony and commences to seek out each of them and kill them if they don't have what he is looking for . 
i don't think either director aris iliopulos nor ed wood realized that this would have made a glorious 20 minute short . 
the subject and the style seem to have been made for it . 
unfortunately , twenty minutes worth of material is stretched out to more than four times that length , and the film simply overstays its already dubious welcome . 
it grabbed my attention in the beginning and gradually lost it as it went on , up to the point where halfway through i was already weary . 
it might seem odd that a film as furiously paced as this one can be so tedious ; but the surprise will wear off when you consider how repetitive it is . 
i woke up early the day i died is a comedy , i guess , though it could have fooled me . 
unlike most ed wood films , this one tries to be funny and fails , instead of the other way around . 
there's nothing inherently wrong with that , in fact , i think it would only make sense for someone who has been so " good " at making unintentional comedies to take a stab at a real one . 
whether wood actually went for comedy in his script we'll never know , but in either case , this is a failure . 
jonathan taylor thomas , christina ricci , summer phoenix , john ritter and others show up for short and pointless cameos . 
ricci , for example , plays a prostitute . 
her role consists of dancing around with zane in his motel room and then being thrown out . 
thomas is an astonished onlooker as a woman gets thrown off a cliff . 
was the home improvement teen heartthrob really that desperate for work ? 
zane , meanwhile , occupies himself by making weird faces at the camera when he is not called upon to run around wildly and beat people up . 
lack of dialogue makes him the ultimate caricature . 
the carnival side-show climax manages to demonstrate everything that is wrong with this no-budget production . 
it's desperately unfunny , but thinks it's the funniest thing since plan 9 ; , it's so spontaneously surrealistic it makes your head spin all while being confusing enough to make your head spin twice as fast in the other direction . 
i hope another film is made from an ed wood screenplay for i woke up early the day i died is not a fitting send-off . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 

zero effect gets its title from the main character , daryl zero ( bill pullman ) , although we don't understand what it truly means until the very last line of dialogue in the film . 
zero is a private investigator , perhaps the best private investigator who ever lived ( at least he'd like to think so ) . 
however , he's a socially inept being , and eccentric in every possible way -- this fact certainly makes his talents as a private eye even more bewildering than they already are . 
zero's accomplice is steve arlo ( ben stiller ) , a " normal " guy who does the business side of the job -- he's the one who actually speaks to clients and explains zero's greatness as an investigator . 
the opening scene has steve explaining the many virtues of zero's talents to soon-to-be client gregory stark ( ryan o'neal ) . 
it turns out that stark has lost a key to a safe deposit box , and is now being blackmailed for something that he apparently knows nothing about . 
zero takes the case , and the plot thickens . 
his path leads to a young , pretty paramedic named gloria sullivan ( kim dickens ) . 
despite her luminous and seemingly-harmless presence , she turns out to be the one blackmailing stark . 
through his investigations , zero learns why , but not without developing feelings for gloria -- feelings that , because of his reclusive behavior , are new and confusing to him . 
i have no particular affinity towards the mystery genre of film . 
i can idly enjoy movies about private investigators , and , every once in a while , a film like chinatown comes a long that blows me away ( actually , no private eye film has ever reached chinatown's greatness ) . 
zero effect , which is jake kasdan's first effort as writer/director , is a film about a private investigator that succeeds in all attempts : it's an original , funny , and completely involving motion picture . 
with so many cliches available to this genre , i find it amazing that kasdan avoided all of them . 
but he didn't just successfully avoid flaws : he has created a great film here , one that had me interested and fascinated from the first shot to the final moment . 
take , for starters , the great cast of characters . 
pullman is terrific as zero , showing a comic flair that i really haven't seen from him since spaceballs . 
zero is the kind of guy who seems at ease switching personalities so frequently as he does here ; the fact that he's an almost exaggeratedly twisted , emotionally unstable man outside of his profession is not at all difficult to believe . 
pullman's performance is much more layered than it might seem at first glance , and the occasional voice-over as he's going through the motions of his job are insightful and often hilarious . 
ben stiller is also a very funny individual ; he's the kind of comedian who makes normal lines sound funny . 
 " i'll shoot you , " he says to stark at one point . 
 " i have a gun , and everything . " 
his character is also well-drawn , with an interesting subplot involving his girlfriend ( angela featherstone ) who is not happy with the extensive amounts of time he must spend away from her due to the unpredictability of his job . 
o'neal also gives his character a bit of depth ; and kim dickens , last seen ( and underused ) in mercury rising , gets a chance to show us her talent here , giving gloria the realism this kind of character really needs . 
i find zero effect to be an immensely funny and witty film . 
kasdan's humor is of the best kind -- soft spoken , and mostly dialogue-driven ( though there are some great visual jokes ) . 
it's the kind of humor that's funny even after you've seen it five or six times . 
there's one scene in which zero talks about how detached he is , an how that makes him such a great detective . 
what we see during this narration are various shots of him sitting on a bed , or standing motionlessly , with his hair destroyed and an utterly blank look painted on his unshaven face , his eyes pointing to something off camera , but obviously to nothing in particular . 
i can't convey to you how funny this is , but what makes it great film making is that it has a point -- scenes like this are frequent , and they provide solid characterization of zero . 
as a side note , i don't consider myself an average viewer when it comes to comedy ( not to sound elitist ) -- i find things funny that many do not , and vice versa . 
there was a clump of people near me in the theater laughing uproariously through this film , and the rest of the theater was relatively silent through most of it . 
i have a feeling the humor here won't appeal to everyone , but there's certainly enough story and character development to keep anyone's interest . 
jake kasdan , son of writer/director lawrence kasdan , is only 22 years old . 
i found this out after seeing the film , and i can't remember ever being so impressed with a film maker . 
his direction is stylish without being pretentious , and his writing is mature , full , and developed . 
zero effect is the kind of film that i'll buy for my collection -- smart , original films like this are rare as it is , but this one actually has a heart and a soul . 
at the end of the film , i was involved in the characters , and i was satisfied with the outcome . 
and , with kasdan's undeniable talent at such a young age , all i can do is hope to see a lot more from him in the future . 

you know you're in for a truly different cinematic experience the moment you realize steve buscemi has been cast as the movie in question's most normal character . 
such is the case with " the big lebowski , " joel and ethan coen's first venture since their " fargo " nabbed nationwide acclaim and a mantlepiece of academy award nods . 
there's no need to fear that the coens suffered creative burnout with that accomplishment , because " lebowski " is an effort that makes words like " strange " and " unusual " seem like an understatement . 
thanks in part to delicious characterization and an all-encompassing sense of humor , the film is a smashing success . 
the central oddball here is the dude ( jeff bridges ) , an unemployed cad whose ambitions appear to be zilch beyond smoking pot , drinking beer and going bowling ( are you college students already rooting for him , or what ? ) . 
one night , a pair of thugs break into his house and pee on his carpet , a threatening act that's supposed to be carried out against a famous pasadena millionaire ( david huddleston ) who shares his birth name -- jeff lebowski -- with the dude . 
once the dude realizes this coincidence , he visits the big lebowski in hopes to claim reparations for his soiled rug , and is back to his normal life with alley pals walter ( john goodman ) , a hotheaded vietnam vet , and donny ( buscemi ) , a mild-mannered surfer , before too long . 
soon , though , lebowski's trampy trophy wife bunny ( tara reid ) is kidnaped and held for a hefty ransom , and he turns to the dude for help . 
it seems bunny's troubles are related to a line of work she's kept secret from her husband -- she's actually an adult film star and is very in debt with a shady producer named jackie treehorn . 
the dude , now on lebowski's payroll , accepts the offer and agrees to handle the money drop ; walter tags along and insists that the dude keep the cash for himself . 
chaos obviously ensues , and the dude eventually finds himself in hot water with cops , crooks and lebowski's ultra-eccentric artist daughter maude ( julianne moore ) . 
 " the big lebowski " deserves to win the coens the same amount of acclaim that " fargo " did ; while that 1996 black comedy was certainly a better film , " lebowski " is at least as breathtakingly imaginative . 
the movie boasts a mile-high absurdity level that sometimes threatens to topple over , but thankfully never does . 
the coens ( joel directed , ethan produced and both wrote ) keep you in stitches as they unravel their exceedingly loopy tale , and must be commended for juggling a number of people and subplots one would expect to find in a robert altman flick . 
whether we're watching bridges fend off a marmet in his bathtub or moore don viking duds and dance in a busby berkeley-esque dream sequence , " the big lebowski " is immensely lively . 
there are those who will dislike this film , but not because it's boring . 
the cast has a great deal of fun with the bounteous material they're given . 
bridges exudes a likeable , surprisingly sweet presence ; his dude sure isn't the cleanest guy around , but you'd still follow him to another movie . 
goodman merits 1998's first oscar consideration , as walter's manic temper is one of " the big lebowski " 's many highlights ; the same goes for moore , whose throaty , delectable performance as maude is a hilarious hoot . 
john turturro may very well steal the movie with his two scenes as a colorful bowler from a rival faction . 
sam elliott's rambling narration gets the film off to a solid start . 
and some will recognize peter stormare -- " fargo " 's silent heavy -- as carl hungus , a porn star who's really a samurai sword-wielding german nihilist and has-been pop star . 
only in its final third does the movie falter , with a couple of loose plot threads and some cast members who quickly disappear and never emerge for a curtain call . 
these flaws are forgivable , though -- the coens have crafted a tale so rich with personality that it's hard to look at the final product with anything but a big grin on your face . 
without a doubt , " the big lebowski " is the best film so far this year . 
sure , we're only three months in and the competition ( " deep rising , " " desperate measures , " " the wedding singer , " etc . ) has been pretty bland , but it's still the gospel truth . 
maybe during next awards season , " lebowski " won't be a far cry from " fargo . " 

and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time . 
yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it . 
oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . . 
plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or 
something along those lines . 
critique : a complete and utter mess . 
disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and 
that's just the first thirty minutes ! 
this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself . 
it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) . 
the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it 
just goes from one inexplicable situation to another . 
one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s . 
why ? 
who knows . 
what are they talking about ? 
no idea . 
flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! ! 
hullo . . . ? ! ? 
confused yet ? 
i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story . 
random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ? 
or were they in the present at that time ? 
who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who 
seriously cares ! 
this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it . 
please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it ! 
even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one . 
the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere . 
and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ? 
nope . 
and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes , 
the man is not aging gracefully , is he ? 
oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years . 
the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near . 
overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's 
a living ! 
he's also very funny , not purposely though . 
all in all , the movie stinks . 
nuff said . 

i had lost all faith in pg-13 movies that are intended for teenagers and adults . 
the last dozen or so that i have seen have all felt incomplete , as if the most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating . 
however , after seeing the creative frequency last week and now the exciting u-571 , my bias is beginning to go away . 
both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intellectual for older viewers . 
even better , i didn't think either one of these films would be any good from first instincts . 
everyone loves surprises . 
u-571 looked like another action film using an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes and bullets . 
this may be true , but the action is so extraordinary that it is clear director/co-writer jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal ; to blow the audience's socks off . 
set during the early stages of world war 2 when the united states struggled to break the codes of the technologically advanced german u-boats , u-571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe the typewriter necessary to solve the enigma from an enemy ship . 
there's only one problem : the american ship they came from and hoped to return to has been shot down stranding the men on a german submarine known as ( you guessed it ) u-571 . 
it is now up to the mostly young and inexperienced sailors , led by an interim captain named tyler ( matthew mcconaughey ) , to return the typewriter to america without getting sunk by far superior german ships . 
the film starts off very slowly with a somewhat weak opening action sequence and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors ( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear ) . 
once the crew gets on the u-boat , the movie shifts to another level and never leaves this high energy level until the ending credits roll down . 
as soon as the action starts , it does not stop and luckily , because it is so exciting , i didn't want it to stop . 
this is not a movie for those wanting to avoid loud noises , from the wonderful , heart-pounding score to the constant yelling of panicking men , make sure you see this at a theater with surround-sound ? otherwise , do not see it all . 
the best parts of u-571 are when tyler is forced to make impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations . 
throughout the movie , several morals or characters are introduced to make tyler's job as stressful as possible . 
germans gun down their own men , tyler's mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain has to be prepared to sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory , another sailor ( erik palladino ) threatens mutiny . 
all of these examples , and several others , increase the chaotic atmosphere and the importance of tyler's every move . 
they also make u-571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while . 

1 . he doesn't have a hard-to-decipher accent , 2 . he doesn't always speak in a monotone , and 3 . 
his face doesn't always wear the same impassive expression . 
in short , the former nfl player turned fox sportscaster turned actor is too good to be bad , but too bad to be good . 
unfortunately , the same cannot be said of his first star vehicle , firestorm , which is just plain awful . 
one of the most glaring problems with long ( who made his acting debut in john woo's broken arrow ) is that he's so mediocre that he often blends in with the scenery . 
as ace firefighter jesse graves , long is supposed to be playing a bigger-than-life action hero -- the kind of he- man who will crash through a flaming door to save a child or parachute into a burning clearing to rescue some stupid campers . 
unfortunately , despite the best efforts of first-time director dean semler to photograph long using heroic shots that make kevin costner's work in the postman look stark , jesse turns out to be a pretty boring good guy . 
to put it kindly , this is not a well-written motion picture . 
firestorm is a collection of howlingly bad lines set against a backdrop of disaster movie clich ? s which , taken together , form something that requires a level of viewer inebriation to be recognized as a plot . 
the only reason this film is getting one star ( instead of something lower ) is that most of the fire sequences are realistic , and i was fascinated by the meticulous planning that must have been necessary to stage them effectively . 
we're introduced to our big burly hero one afternoon when he and some colleagues jump into the midst of a forest fire to save a group of people . 
during this sequence , our big burly hero proves that he's also a sensitive guy by risking his life to save a little girl and her dog ( yes , the dog lives ) from being broiled alive . 
flash-forward a year . 
now , our big burly hero is taking over as chief of his smokejumpers association , replacing outgoing honcho wynt perkins ( real actor scott glenn ) . 
but this day , our big burly hero's first in charge , isn't going to be business-as-usual . 
a group of nasty escaped criminals have set a wyoming forest alight to aid their flight to freedom . 
led by randy earl shaye ( william forsythe ) , the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , they pose as canadian firefighters who somehow got lost across the border . 
along the way , they meet and take hostage the damsel in distress ( suzy amis ) . 
eventually , our big burly hero is placed in a position where he has to fight the fire , rescue the damsel in distress , defeat the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , and restore order to the galaxy . 
firestorm's director , dean semler , is a former cinematographer ( he won an academy award for his work on dances with wolves ) , so it's no surprise that the film looks good . 
unfortunately , that's firestorm's lone asset , and it falters near the end , when computer-generated special effects fill up the screen . 
these are of about equal quality to what you might observe on a nintendo 64 video game . 
the action sequences , which include a variety of chases , are occasionally interesting , but never invigorating . 
everyone , including long , appears to be going through the motions . 
there isn't a memorable performance to be found from beginning to end , unless you count the forest fire , which generates some heat . 
as the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to really die , william forsythe lacks panache . 
he's worse than a generic bad guy ; he's a boring generic bad guy who doesn't have any snappy one-liners to hurl at our big burly hero . 
my advice to scott glenn ( absolute power ) and suzy amis ( titanic ) is to accidentally forget this film the next time they're making out a resume . 
there's some small comfort in knowing this early in the year that i already have one entry for my bottom 10 list . 
 ( at least i hope there aren't 10 worse films than this . ) 
and i know i wasn't the only one who really disliked this movie . 
as the audience was filing out of the screening , i loitered in the theater lobby to catch a few comments . 
the general consensus seemed to be that , although the movie sucked , the promotional key ring was cool . 
the problem is that fox won't be giving out key rings to regular movie-goers , so that nixes any reason to see firestorm . 

 " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics . 
and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it . 
the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) . 
he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do . 
as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama . 
there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate . 
so why did i enjoy it so much ? 
for one thing , the cast is great . 
kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role . 
we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort . 
yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be . 
and he never broods . 
the rest of the cast is equally impressive . 
john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian . 
but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter . 
by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character . 
another nice touch is the music . 
we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all . 
the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun . 
during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing . 
of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic . 
anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise . 
don't let the premise prevent you from watching it . 
it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 

perhaps the most dramatic changes in the motion picture industry in this decade have to do with special effects . 
there is no question that action-adventure and science-fiction/action movies are now judged by the character of their light and noise . 
whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years , such as raiders of the lost ark , were made in grand traditional fashion ; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion-dollar creations of computer technology . 
the latest in this visually awesome series of movies , the wachowski brothers' the matrix , is a testament to the skilled use of special effects and its ability to enhance a movie's story . 
unlike many sci-fi movies which promote themselves as effects-heavy blockbusters but fail to deliver on that promise , the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event . 
it runs 135 minutes in length and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose , and the quality of the effects remains constant throughout the film's length . 
contrary to popular trend , the matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light and sound . 
in this regard , the movie is something like a card sharp . 
with its flashy mass stripped away , the matrix would be quite shallow and untalented . 
the script is characteristically weak , and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approach . 
but , like the card sharp , the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent . 
the viewers don't care about what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right around the corner . 
and right around the corner they usually are , for the script tells a fast-paced , albeit frequently revisited story . 
as the movie explains , the world as we know it is nothing but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose of placating mankind . 
billions of human beings lie in this dormant state while the intelligence -- the matrix -- " farms " our life energy . 
only a select group of individuals knows of the " real " world , and a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra-cool morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) . 
morpheus and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo ( keanu reeves ) , believing he is a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix and return peace to earth . 
the cast plays out this story in stylish fashion . 
the set design is very dynamic , running the gambit between cramped and dreary to bright and airy . 
the costumes , as well as the actors who wear them , add to the roles . 
for instance , the manifested antagonists in the movie , a group of " agents " created by the matrix in its computer program , all dress in matching secret servicewear ; the rebel fighters , on the other hand , dress in rich hues of leather . 
the casting cannot be criticized , for the typically stoic reeves isn't required to say much and laurence fishburne gets plenty of time to be so damn cool . 
supports in carrie-anne moss , joe pantoliano , and hugo weaving are all effectual . 
one of the best comparisons to thw matrix is last year's science fiction masterpiece dark city , particularly if one ponders how this same premise would've worked from a different approach . 
the alex proyas film was far more dark and introspective , requiring a bit of thought before themes became clear ; here , the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill-ride motion picture with little abandon and much noise . 
the better picture between the two depends on the viewer , but the key to the success of the matrix is that the noise did not get in the way of the fun . 

in `enemy at the gates' , jude law is a gifted russian sniper made hero by a political officer named danilov ( joseph fiennes ) who uses him in a propaganda newspaper to raise the hopes of the soldiers and people of stalingrad . 
it's world war ii , and the russian-german standoff in town could determine the outcome of things for the motherland . 
law's vassili is the russian's top pawn to victory . 
lots of war stuff happens . 
an older , german version of jude's character played by ed harris shows up halfway into the proceedings . 
he's equally talented , and the two men play a cat and mouse game trying to kill each other . 
they constantly switch roles , as the war fades far into the background . 
the cast also includes the terrific rachel weisz as a love interest for both vassili and danilov 
the set-up is decent , and so are the production values . 
boasting a wide range of grimy locales , greasy hair , and tattered costumes , the art direction prospers . 
the actors , however , suffer the problem matt damon had in `saving private ryan' . 
either their eyes , teeth , skin , or a combination of other features looked too white and clean . 
with dirt and blood all around , the blinding teeth or bright eyes of these actors divert attention from the action . 
that said , the players are mostly good in their roles , although i don't think ed harris was really trying . 
maybe he realized his role struck a difficult chord in one-notedom . 
while the film is technically about snipers , there are far too many predictable sniping scenes . 
director jean-jacques annaud expects us to view each tense situation with jude and some cohort in a tight spot as edgy and exciting , but after about the sixth time , in which we realize that jude is not going to die , it's relatively pointless . 
we get that he's talented , okay , let's move on . 
that's the problem with `enemy at the gates' ; it just doesn't know when to stop . 
witness the wasted seventeen minutes that could have been spent elsewhere . 
reestablishing his title as the most beautiful ( and often talented ) man on film , jude law carries the movie . 
without him , this costly production would have gone into the ground . 
the story and acting are of good quality , but there's never a sense of authenticity or reality . 
something about this war movie is undeniably modern , and it loses its feeling . 
strange enough , the screenplay is based on the true story of a real russian sniper . 

an 18-foot-high , 43-foot-long dragon is the computer-generated co- star of this strictly-by-the-numbers sword 'n' sorcery flick . 
as voiced by sean connery , " draco " is a surprisingly expressive creation who is well-deserving of his 23 minutes of screen time . 
he walks , talks , flies , fries , and even fakes his own death , all with the help of 96 computer-aided animators . 
too bad that ilm ( industrial light and magic ) couldn't spare some special effects for dragonheart's * human * co-stars . 
a bearded black hole exists where dennis quaid should be . 
he's a near-total loss as he growls glumly through his role of a disillusioned knight . 
david thewlis' evil king has a high hiss factor ( hf ) , though he's more of a mumbling oddity than anything else . 
oh , and there's some redhead in a '90's wig , who runs around either screaming or scowling , depending upon if the particular scene has her playing the woman in peril or the put upon peasant . 
the fringe flourishes include pete postlethwaite as a wandering monk with literary ambitions , julie christie ( ! ) as the good queen mother , a band of mercenaries that appear dressed for ye olde heavy-metal concert , and , believe or it not , the speaking spirit of king arthur . 
bring out your dead ! 
unfortunately , when we add it all together ( draco + fringe bits - quaid - thewlis ) , the sum total amounts to zero . 
dragonheart is , well , too much of too little . 
director rob cohen ( dragon : the bruce lee story ) has made a big , expensive movie that , while ambitiously plotted , is both murky and predictable . 
and overscored . 
and self-important . 
and the list goes on . 
 ( i must ask : did screenwriter charles edward pogue intend that * every * character be stabbed , lanced , or sliced at least once ? 
keep that man away from the knife drawer ! ) 
the last five minutes of this movie are the worst , with some silly celestial nonsense that would be laughed out of any planetarium light show , much less a summer movie . 
save your money . 

there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors . 
when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture . 
you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries . 
i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories . 
i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey . 
the badness of patch adams is stupefying . 
it's confounding . 
i can't believe a film can be this bad . 
and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make . 
in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human . 
in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself . 
while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings . 
so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients . 
he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people . 
he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor . 
naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams . 
so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have . 
and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 . 
on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) . 
but the film fails fundamentally in execution . 
every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard . 
take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus . 
we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad . 
later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively . 
and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad . 
but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions . 
real drama is character-based . 
you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it . 
we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness . 
real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry . 
that's why patch adams is not real drama . 
it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene . 
even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score . 
sentimentality like this is indeed bad . 
but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes . 
you see , patch is a really great student . 
he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating . 
but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor . 
 " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds . 
well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients . 
not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort . 
most of us have to study . 
and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death . 
oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! " 
yes ! 
that is true ! 
and you can not do that without studying . 
you can not do that without going to medical school . 
what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later . 
follow the rules ? 
bah ! 
who needs the rules ! 
only uptight doctors follow the rules . 
the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants . 
and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic . 
a free clinic . 
in the middle of the forest . 
where patients can be taken to be helped . 
for free . 
how will patients be transported to the free clinic ? 
will it have an emergency room ? 
or is it just for mental patients ? 
and who , may i ask , will pay for it ? 
the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent . 
reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams . 
i know nothing about him . 
if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them . 
but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony . 
and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting . 
actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting . 
he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words . 
i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words . 
i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be . 
patch adams is the cheapest of them all . 

after enduring mariah carey's film debut , glitter , i'm reminded of a bit from chris rock's bigger and blacker . 
in response to women saying that they can raise a child without a man , rock says , " you can drive a car with your feet , but that don't mean it should be done . " 
to that i say , you can give mariah carey a movie , but that certainly don't mean it should be done . 
sure , there are plenty of pop star film vehicles out there -- from the beatles' a hard day's night to the spice girls' spice world -- but none have been so vapidly pointless or laughable as glitter . 
everything about this complete tripe is ludicrous . 
start off with the story , which -- as gruesomely predictable as it is -- is the least offensive part of the movie . 
the film is inexplicably set in the 80s , a period piece that really shows no sign of its period except for a few chicks in leg warmers . 
worse yet , everyone's speaking late 90s hip-hop slang in what should be 1983 . 
meant to be partially autobiographical , carey plays billie frank , a young singer in new york who struggles to overcome a rough childhood and abandonment by her alcoholic mother . 
influential club dj julian dice , a . k . a . " lucky 7 " ( max beesley playing a bad mix of puff daddy and robert de niro ) , hears her sing on a track , and decides to make her a star . 
in predictably rapid succession , billie and dice fall for each other , she starts hitting it big , dice gets jealous and starts acting like an ass , and suddenly billie's on " the roller coaster of superstardom . " 
in the meantime , billie is on an emotional hunt for her missing mom . 
i won't give away the ending , but -- honestly -- just think of unicorns and rainbows . . . 
you'll figure it out . 
the movie screams to be made with camp , and that could've been fun . 
but the filmmakers thought making the bulk of glitter weepy and dramatic would be better . 
what a mistake . 
the brief attempts at comic relief -- as in a scene where an effeminate russian-sounding director gets wacky with filming billie's first music video -- go over like lead balloons . 
instead , the audience at my screening tended to laugh loudest during mariah's most dramatic scenes . 
which brings us to the performances , of which there's nothing good that can be said . 
mariah is primarily seen with a wide-eyed deer-in-the-headlights look frozen on her face . 
she actually looks scared during her one love scene . 
but you have to wonder if the writing isn't even worse . 
so much of the dialogue is so hackneyed and watered down for carey's virginal target audience that it's probably impossible for any actor to pull it off with aplomb . 
even the characters couldn't have been written more absurdly . 
they're all members of a barbie playset : the important film director who swoons , " billie , i'd love to put you in a movie i'm making , " and the big-time record executive who takes billie's demo tape and says , " oh , i'll make sure the whole team listens to it in the morning . " 
everyone in the film is a device , and it's painful to keep watching just to see another one appear . 
to say more would be a waste . 
there's so much wrong with this film . 
and , it pains me that mariah carey -- with her ego and sanity in such fragile condition these days , as evidenced by her multiple hospital stays -- will have to suffer through all the negative reviews she's likely to get . 
but , then again , i had to suffer through her movie . 

the most interesting thing about virus is that the title of the film does not refer to the clunky robotic animals that try to kill our heroes . 
alas , it refers to our heroes ! 
as it turns out , the alien race that sends a computer virus to earth ( via the mir space station ) thinks of the human race as a virus -- perhaps even a cancer -- that needs to be eradicated before it spreads any further . 
after all , we have taken up this entire planet , and if they let us live for another billion years or so , we might advance beyond our solar system and into the next one . 
but the human race doesn't have much to worry about . 
after all , there's a woman named foster ( jamie lee curtis ) out there stopping the computer virus . 
she's the chief navigator on a sea vessel ; travelling with her is captain everton ( donald sutherland ) , steve baker ( william baldwin ) , woods ( marshall bell ) , squeaky ( julio oscar mechoso ) , and richie ( sherman augustus ) . 
they're all sailing in a typhoon one lovely evening when they stumble across an enormous , abandoned russian satellite ship in international waters . 
lucky for us , we already saw that the computer virus has taken over the ship and eliminated everyone on board . 
the evil captain everton thinks he's going to take the ship in and get a reward ; he convinces his crew that there's going to be big money , so they try to salvage the ship . 
soon , however , when it's apparent that no one is on board and that the ship has no power , they realize that something bad must have happened . 
finally , they meet nadia ( joanna pacula ) who explains their situation : a computer virus has taken over the ship ! 
it's creating bio-mechanical life-forms to eliminate the human race ! 
virus is a truly dumb action thriller , one of negligible intelligence and innovation . 
when considering the entire film , you will realize that it lacks a single original scene . 
it's a direct rip-off of nearly every james cameron film ( aliens , the abyss , and the terminator films are the most plagiarized ) ; more importantly , it's basically the same movie as last year's deep rising . 
i liked deep rising simply because it's funny -- it knows it's silly and derivative . 
virus takes itself seriously . 
and , in the most serious manner possible , it steals from every good and bad film of the genre , showing you countless familiar scenes , and sporting a cookie-cutter plot that any film of the sci-fi/horror genre could fit with a little trimming . 
but what is so amazing about virus is how poorly the whole thing has been thought out . 
okay , let me get this straight -- the alien race ( which is never really explained ) is basically sentient electricity . 
they need to make themselves physical , so they use a space station to get onto a ship ( which is surrounded by water , but who cares about that ) . 
on the ship , they make a bunch of clunky , immobile robots that somehow kill three hundred people . 
after that , they start using the dead people to create half-human , half-machine creatures that look like the terminator but are much worse at walking around . 
the leader , of course , is a big creature . 
every film like this has a big creature at the end , but the big creature in virus is so big that it has to tear down the walls to move around . 
virus is indeed a cliched film , but the central flaw lies in the fact that the computer virus just isn't very threatening . 
it's established that they can simply turn off the power to stop it , but the virus has sealed the power room by the time our heroes get there . 
on one level , virus is almost passable fun . 
it's really gory , and a few of the scenes have interesting camp appeal ( the director , john bruno , worked on a lot of cameron's films ) . 
there's also a nice array of actors , even though none of them do any acting ( except for donald sutherland , who does a lot of very bad acting ) . 
the bottom line , however , is this : virus is a bad movie . 
it rips off a lot of good movies that are worth seeing . 
in that order , i recommend that you rent any one of the alien films , simply to admire the qualities of a creature that actually threatens our heroes . 

once upon a time a solitary ogre named shrek ( mike myers ) was really annoyed to discover that his swamp had been invaded by three blind mice , seven dwarves and all the other fairy tale characters in the land , banished from their home by lord farquaad ( john lithgow ) . 
unwittingly befriended by a non-stop talking donkey ( eddie murphy ) , shrek travels to dulloc to speak with farquaad , where he stumbles into a joust and comes up the winner . 
his prize ? 
to save princess fiona ( cameron diaz ) from a tower surrounded by molten flame and protected by a dragon so she can become farquaad's bride . 
the ogre agrees to the task in return for getting his solitary lifestyle back in " shrek . " 
it took four writers ( ted elliott and terry rossio ( " the road to el dorado " ) , roger s . h . 
schulman ( " balto " ) and joe stillman ( " beavis and butthead do america " ) ) to adapt william steig's children's book . 
the bad news ? 
they've genericized an already simple plotline while heavily under the influence of william goldman's " the princess bride . " 
the good news ? 
there's so much wacky humor culled from both fairy tales and popular culture that this movie should keep you in stitches . 
we get our first inkling that we're in for a real treat as one of farquaad's men , intent on rounding up magical creatures offers 'five schillings for the possessed boy ! ' after observing dreamworks' rendition of disney's animated pinocchio . 
meanwhile within the castle walls , a gingerbread man being tortured 
by farquaad spits icing and yells 'eat me ! ' 
before breaking down and solemnly asking 'do you know the muffin man ? ' 
shrek , a green giant with bobbly antennae-like ears , is a grumpy recluse who really yearns to fit in ( although who could put up with his habit of making candles from his own ear wax ? ) . 
donkey is a hyperactive , endearingly stunted creature who can talk and , therefore , believes will make a great misfit pairing with the uncooperative shrek . 
donkey proves his worth sweet talking the princess-guarding dragon . 
the princess proves to be more than a shade offbeat after learning she's not getting the fairy tale issue rescue she's been expecting . 
when fiona's true colors are exposed ( including opportunies for some tomboyish gross out humor ) , a spark develops between her and shrek . 
the script's details are gleefully impish , constantly poking fun at disney from the theme park world of farquaad's dulloc with its turnstyle entrance and 'it's a small world' parody of an information booth to the blue bird which meets a most un-disneyish fate after duetting with fiona 'snow white' style . 
popular culture is represented with film references to " babe " and " charlies' angels " via " the matrix . " 
myers chooses his 'so i married an axe murderer' scottish brogue for shrek in order to give his voice some heft . 
while this may prove distracting for anyone familiar with that film , overall it works more than not . 
eddie murphy steals the show as the fast-talking , motown-singing donkey , proving once again his talent as a vocal performer ( is it another wink at disney that donkey is paired with a dragon , a creature murphy portrayed in disney's 'mulan ? ' ) . 
lithgow's a good choice for the supercilious , height-challenged villain lord farquaad . 
diaz is energetic but ultimately nondescript voicing princess fiona . 
 ( a better choice would have been minnie driver , who's proven herself a terrific vocal talent in such diverse animations as disney's " tarzan , " " princess mononoke " and the " south park " movie . ) 
the computer animation looks terrific ( particularly donkey ) , although it won't elicit the types of oohs and aahs of pixar's work ( " toy story , " " a bug's life , " " toy story 2 " ) . 
in keeping with its hip style , pop music is used , which like myer's voice may be initially jarring , but ultimately satisfies ( while surveying bridal candidates via a 'dating game' parody broadcast by snow white's evil queen's mirror , farquaad is told 'fiona likes pina coladas' - cue jimmy buffet ! ) . 
 " shrek " has good lessons for kids and humor targetted at every age group in the family . 
while it may be derivative of the 1987's " the princess bride , " " shrek " addresses a new generation with similar sensibilities and doesn't suffer in the comparison . 

every once in a while a movie comes along that completely redefines the genre : with dramas , it was citizen kane , with arthouse it was pulp fiction , and with comedy it was , well , that jim carrey guy ( okay , so he's not a movie , but he did have a huge influence on the genre . 
not to mention an expensive one . ) 
sometimes a movie even combines them all into a big , sprawling motion picture event , as did forrest gump four years ago . 
with action films , it was aliens , whic was released to much hype seven years after it's equally-innovative parent , alien ( 1979 ) . 
directed and written by james cameron ( t2 : judgement day , the abyss , true lies ) , the authority on action films , it was a masterful encore to his sci-fi thriller the terminator ( 1984 ) . 
while the original alien film was a dark , enclosed horror film that featured one alien slowly massacering a horrified crew , james cameron took the big-budget action film with aliens , which featured multiple aliens doing basically the same thing , although on a much-larger scale . 
and boy , did he take that route ! 
i'd say at about 165 mph or so . . . 
the film opens 57 years after the original , with lt . ripley ( weaver ) being found in her ship in a cryogenic state by a salvage vessel . 
if you'll recall , at the end of alien ripley , the only surviving member , cryogenically " hibernated " herself after expelling the rogue alien from her ship . 
unfortunately , she thought she'd only be out for a couple of weeks . . . 
once she's returned to earth , ripley is quickly interrogated by " the company " , who quickly dismiss her and her stories as lunacy . 
in truth , they believe her , as they soon approach ripley with an offer to travel with some marines to a new colony planet as an " alien advisor " . 
it seems that the colony planet was a once-breeding ground for the nasty aliens , and now all communication with the planet has been lost . . . 
it doesn't exactly take a genius to guess what happens next : ripley agrees , and before you can say " big mistake " , she and the half dozen marines , plus the slimy corporate guy ( reiser ) , who has more than it looks like up under his sleeve , are off to the colony . 
when they arrive , they find the planet in ruins . 
only one survivor is found , a little girl , newt , who confirms that , yes , the aliens were here and that she only managed to survive by hidding in the ventilation system . 
and soon enough , the marines come under attack from the aliens . . . 
what happens for the next hour and a half or so is what completely sets this movie apart from any other standard alien sci-fi movie : the action scenes . 
cameron directs them so skillfully , and so suspensefully , that you're literally ringing your hands by the time the finale rolls around . 
which features , in my opinion , the best fight scene ever recorded on film , as ripley straps herself into a huge robot and battles the nasty queen alien to the death . 
many people will tell you that this film , while being a great action film , has no real drama and is all cliches . 
well , they would be wrong , my friends . 
if this film had no " drama " , then why was sigourney weaver nominated for best actress at the 1987 academy awards ? 
that's right , best actress . 
you know that any action film that has an oscar nomination attached to it for something other than technical stuff like editing and f/x has got to be good . 
in short , aliens combines all the right elements ( great action and f/x , drama , a good plot , good dialogue , and great villains ) into what could arguably be called the best action film of all time . 
then again , maybe not . 
movies rise and fall from glory and , sad to say , aliens was wrestled from it's throne of best action movie by another cameron film , t2 : judgement day , in 1991 . 
so who will be the next king ? 
well , let's wait until december 19th and see yet another james cameron film-the highest budgeted film of all time-titanic to make that decision . 
i can't wait . 

i feel no hesitation in saying that " there's something about mary " is the best film that i will see all year . 
from the moment the credits started to roll at the end of the picture , there was no doubt in my mind that i had seen a masterpiece that will remain unsurpassed in the remaining months of 1998 . 
it is that good of a film . 
when gene siskel said this about " fargo " only a few months into '96 , i dismissed the notion as ridiculous . 
how could you possibly know that a film is so great that nothing you could possibly see in the future could beat it ? 
but after seeing the farrelly's hilarious and surprisingly heartfelt masterwork , i now know what siskel was talking about . 
once in a ( very great ) while , a film comes along that is so daring , so brilliant and simply so enjoyable that at the end , you just want to stand up and cheer . 
and you know , at that instant , that you have just experienced something very special . 
now for the shocker ; " mary " is the grossest and most disgusting film i have ever viewed ( " pink flamingos " obviously notwithstanding ) . 
the movie is so rude and , i guess , inappropriate in nature that i had a hard time sitting in a theater watching it with my parents ( luckily i had seen it before them , so i could warn the about what they were in for ) . 
forget " blazing saddles " , " animal house " and even the former king of gross-out comedy , " monty python's meaning of life " ; they were all only preludes to the farrelly's assault on the senses . 
in fact , this may even be the funniest film i've ever had the pleasure of seeing ( the only real contender is " monty python and the holy grail " ) , and most certainly the most hilarious to come out all decade . 
but as funny as it is , something also has to be said about the overall sweetness of " mary " ; it has a huge heart . 
you see , the farrelly's are truly gifted filmmakers . 
they don't just present you with a string of dick and fart jokes ( although there are plenty to go around ) . 
they also , very wisely , add an unbelievable amount of charisma to the main characters and actually have them develop as the story progresses . 
it's funny , though . 
if you just look at an outline of the story , it seems kind of contrived and predictable . 
but believe me , it is anything but . 
ben stiller plays ted , a very shy and clumsy teenage geek who lusts after the school babe , mary ( cameron diaz ) . 
after he sticks up for her retarded brother , warren ( w . 
early brown - the cameraman , believe it or not , from " scream " ) , his dreams come true when she invites him to the prom . 
in one of the film's funniest scenes , something goes wrong ( i won't ruin it for those who know nothing about the film ) and ted is unable to face mary ever again . 
jump to the present . 
after years of self-loathing , ted finally hires private detective pat healy ( a suitably slimy matt dillon ) to track her down so he can have one last chance at winning the woman he has loved since high school . 
healy finds that mary is still a full-blown hottie and decides to try and keep her for himself . 
admittingly , the basic story line leaves a little to be desired . 
after all , with a not-really-all-that-funny premise , how can you sustain laughter for nearly two hours ? 
somehow , the farrelly's pull it off . 
the performances here are also right on target . 
as ted , stiller adds just the right amount of clumsy charm to make his character not irritating , as he would normally be , but very lovable . 
and cameron diaz is perfect in her role for obvious reasons , but the actor who really grabs your attention is w . earl brown as mary's brother . 
no other actor has even come close to playing a mentally retarded man with as much natural ease as brown displays here . 
i know he won't be nominated , but this is the guy who should not be counted out when it comes time to hand out the oscar nods in february . 
as good as the actors are , though , it's the directors' movie all the way . 
i guarantee that on almost every other top ten list at the end of the year , you will see the number one space occupied by steven spielberg's wwii epic " saving private ryan " . 
and yes , that is a great film worthy of the recognition it has been getting . 
but which is harder ; making a great war film or having your audience laugh so hard that they can't breath for minutes at a time ? 
i'll let you decide that one for yourself , but this critic is sticking to his guns . 
there is just something about " mary " . 

andrew lloyd webber's musicals , preferably his early work with lyricist tim rice , present a musical which is totally unlike any musical before its time . 
webber and rice do not subscribe to the gaity of such musicals as " oklahoma ! , " or the slapstickness of shows like " a funny thing happened on the way to the forum . " 
they instead tackle hot issues from our past , and view them differently , and pack them together with redundant , catchy music , as well as thoughtful lyrics . 
like " jesus christ superstar , " which examined the rise and fall of jesus in his last days from a fame perspective ( in the cool tune " superstar , " a dead judas comes back from the dead to ask jesus why he didn't spread his message wider ) , " evita " takes an inventive stance on its topic , this time being the famed wife of argentinian dictator , juan per ? n , eva , who slept her way to the top and became famous chiefly because she got attention , much like the woman playing her : madonna ( although i think madonna did rise to the top for her musical talent , among other things ) . 
 " evita " deals with the rise and fall of eva per ? n , a woman who captured the heart of the nation after marrying juan ( jonathan pryce ) , then died at the young age of 33 , creating an international stir of mourning not unlike that of princess di ( the two do share a bit in common , although it wasn't like di slept to " the top " ) . 
webber and rice sure chose bizarre topics for their musicals , but they always have a point for doing it . 
here , they wish to expose her for what she is , but still show that despite all of her many drawbacks , her lying , and covering up for her fascist husband , but show that she was still a good woman with fairly good intentions , and her death was very sad . 
it's also a musical , with almost no words not unsung . 
the film plays like a rock opera , much like their " jesus christ superstar , " with many giant musical sequences just like the old musicals , even if they do possess very intelligent lyrics , which create not only an intellectually enlightening experience , but also a very entertaining one . 
after all , this is a musical , and webber's musicals never undermine this . 
they are a balance of energy and intellectual depth , walking on a fine line between the both , and never stumbling on either side . 
this is why the beginning of " evita " is kind of a let-down . 
okay , it is a let-down . 
i'm not saying the opening moments are bad , because they're pretty good . 
but what comes after is a lifeless , un-entertaining , and totally unrewarding sequence where she cons a singer ( jimmy nail ) into taking eva to buenos aires after a one-night stand . 
in the musical , it's a fun , energetic sequence , culiminating in the show stopper , " buenos aires , " which is also lifeless . 
then a punch is pulled as we see eva being screwed over by the singer , instead of her leaving him , where she ends up singing the sad tune , " another suitcase in another hall , " which was meant for a later character , screwed over by eva . 
the portrayal of eva in the beginning is too soft , seeming like parker and oliver stone , who adapted it for the screen , are afraid to present her for what she is , even while it's being narrated by a hater of eva's , the omnipotent ( antonio banderas ) , who presents her in a negative light . 
for a while , it looks like alan parker can't pull it off . 
however , the film pulls itself together in a flash , and after that song is over , and the giddily nihilistic song " goodbye and thank you , " where we see eva go through a long line of lovers who help her ascend , is magnificent , darkly comical , and just gleeful . 
from this point on , the film is hypnotic , satisfying , and satirical . 
no more punches are thrown , and the basic outline of the original musical are in tact . 
we see eva woo and marry juan , get him out of jail , rise to stardom , falter a bit , come back , and then gradually die of cancer ( i think it was because of cancer ) . 
more importantly , many of the themes from the musical carry on with this , as well as some filling-in-the-gaps reconnassaince work . 
juan , who is pretty underwritten in the musical , is given some extra scenes , and exposed as what he was for eva : an accessory . 
a muted scene where he tries to visit her respective room but is shunned allows us to learn more about juan , and understand his sadness more than we did before . 
>from the " goodbye and thank you " number on , the film shows eva trying to cover up for the horrible government by doing cheap and petty things which wooed a nation , and saved a government , even while it left the nation's people downtrodden . 
but despite this , the nation still loved eva , and when she slipped into death , the world mourned her because she was a star . 
that's when our narrator , ch ? , comes out to show that she wasn't the great woman she really was , and expose her fame . 
describing this character is difficult , mainly because he has no real realistic background ( he's said to be based on the revolutionary ch ? guevera , but the two probably could have never met , like they do in the film ) , but he serves as a perspective on eva , but even his perspective can't help us from feeling bad when eva dies a pathetic death . 
alan parker , no stranger to bizarre musicals ( he's done " fame , " " the committments , " " bugsy malone , " and " pink floyd the wall " - the latter which is absolutely brilliant ) , nails the film , exposing everything for what it is . 
we cry for evita at the end because we feel we should , by the way it is presented . 
his direction is manipulative for a reason : to show the mourning for what it is . 
and there is energy throughout , with lots of bright colors , and scenes which are cinematically entertaning , as well as enriching and deep , such as the balcony scene where she sings " don't cry for me , argentina , " and her death sequence , which is poignant becuase of how sad it is . 
madonna's golden globe winning performance is much like the movie : starts kinda downhill then goes up quickly , remaning there for the rest of the film . 
at the beginning , she looks like she's too busy concentrating on her singing to act , but she eventually gets it right , though never really getting the presence of , say , patti lupone ( who did the role in its american premiere back in the late 70s ) . 
her death , though , is brilliant . 
her singing could be better though . 
i know she took lessons to improve her range and all , but it still sounds like she's trying to hard . 
she sounds way too soft in several places where she should be comanding ( like . . . patti 
lupone - i heard her sing on an old " evita " cd , and you could just feel her stage presence without even seeing her ) . 
but it's generally very good , although not up to the brilliance the role really requires . 
antonio banderas , who is almost like a guilty pleasure these days ( i'm one of the few people who thinks he rocks ) , is extremely comanding in his performance , presenting a lovable narrator . 
his singing is very good , though nothing compared to the original , mandy patinkin . 
he does have a pretty good singing voice , and a great range . 
and jonathan pryce is pretty awesome , although very brief at times , in his role as juan , seeming to put on a poker face for his melancholy facade . 
although it gets off to a rocky start ( " rocky " 's polite for what it really is ) , it soon picks up and becomes a wonderully poignant musical . 
like the other musical released in '96 ( woody allen's " everyone says i love you " ) , it's a reminder that the hollywood musical may be dead , but it can come back every now and then for a brief performance . 

plot : two sister witches have to live with a curse placed upon their family , which prevents them from ever enjoying a full life with a lover . 
the hex invokes the eventual demise of their loved one . 
when one of their past loves comes back to haunt them , they have to figure a way out of their eternal dilemma . 
critique : i've been waiting for a good witch movie for a while now , but hold on to your brooms and incantations , cause this puppy is far from being it ! 
for a film that has the word " magic " in its title , this movie contains very few moments of magic . . . or 
humor for that matter , drama , suspense , or romance . 
well actually , there is some manufactured romance within a plot that is so muddled , it never lets you in on whether it's a comedy , a drama , a horror show , or a murder mystery . 
or maybe it's a romance , eh ? 
it doesn't really matter , cause the characters in the film are so boring and uninteresting , that you have absolutely no basis on which to care for them , or the film as a whole . 
if only the filmmakers had spent as much time on the plot as they did the sinfully obvious soundtrack , this film might've had a chance to be more than what it is now . 
which is an unentertaining , crappy film that uses the witch angle as a diversionary tactic to weave us away from its grab-bag of stupid voice-overs , overdone songs , melodramatic romance , undeveloped story and uneven acting . 
i only wish that i could make that one hour and forty-five minutes of my life re-appear , but alas , it is lost in the spiritual world of " interesting ideas gone wildly awry " . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : this film is based on the novel written by alice hoffman . 
co-screenwriter akiva goldsman also wrote the screenplay for 1997's batman & robin . 
director griffin dunne is known mainly as an actor in such films as an american werewolf in london and after hours . 

did i do something bad ? 
i must have , because sitting through this movie was sheer punishment . 
here's the plot . 
ricky ( jeff goldblum ) is producer of the good-buy network , one of those 24-hour home shopping channels . 
the new boss ( robert loggia ) plans to can ricky's behind if he doesn't turn the previous months' flat sales numbers around , and to add to his problems , ricky also has to work with kate ( kelly preston ) , the ivy league wunderkind whom the boss has brought with him . 
kate and ricky don't get along and don't have any great ideas until they meet g ( eddie murphy ) , a spiritualist who sees something positive in everything . 
his soothing voice and simple logic makes people feel good , and it's this quality that will make g the new gbn television star and the key to the network's success . 
the first problem is a flaw in the plot . 
sure , g makes people feel good . 
sure , we're told that most people feel guilty after buying an impulse item , no matter how wealthy they might be , and i'll even believe that g talks a talk that allows people to feel good about what they've bought . 
but , hey , that's after they've bought it . 
why do sales skyrocket the first time g is on camera ? 
far from trying to sell the product , g instead blathers on about how you don't even need the thing . 
someone please tell me how this is supposed to move merchandise in the first place . 
you might say that people feel good about what they've bought , so they come back and by more , but due to the simple fact that the first round of sales in inexplicable , i'm not convinced this is what the filmmakers had in mind . 
the whole movie is therefore seriously undermined because the key point in the plot is never credible . 
another problem is in the humor . 
you know , if you see that eddie murphy is in a movie , i think it is not unreasonable for you to expect that the film is a comedy . 
whoa , partner , are you in for a surprise . 
holy man is not funny . 
murphy , the one asset you'd think this movie has ( remember how they brought him in at the last minute to save best defense ? 
- then again , maybe you don't ) is seriously reigned in . 
the script gives him almost nothing to work with , and it seems as though director stephen herek kept him toned down so that the other actors in the film wouldn't be left as window dressing . 
there's only one moment in the film where murphy is allowed to let loose , and it lasts for three shouted words , which seem totally out of place as a result . 
pathetic . 
in all , there are about three jokes that work in the entire picture , and they're not even that great . 
as a side note , there are some cameo appearances such as dan marino pitching a contraption which allows you to cook off of your car engine , and james brown introducing a medic-alert device that shouts " help me ! " 
just like the hardest working man in show business at the push of a button , but these never cause your personal laugh-o-meter to rise above the level of mild bemusement . 
 " well , " you ask , " surely there must be some convincing performances to make up for the lack of humor . " 
think again , buckwheat . 
jeff goldblum disappoints . 
kelly preston is flat ( but not like that ) . 
robert loggia , in the kind of role for which he has been virtually typecast , can't do anything with it . 
the script is part of the problem , but these actors don't even look like they believe in the move they're making . 
they look a lot like they're bored . 
just like the audience . 
so what do you have when the humor is absent from your comedy , and the acting is like the siberian steppes ? 
a film that drags more than a dropped anchor . 
but wait ! 
as if these problems don't make the film slow enough , the screenplay's pacing makes the movie even slower ! 
it takes the entire first half hour to establish the movie's premise , then more time as the film wades through a tortuous ( and seemingly mandatory ) romance between ricky and kate , and a sub-plot involving a conniving pr man ( eric mccormack ) who wants to discredit g and take over ricky's job as producer . 
when the pr guy's plan is foiled , the film is climaxes , we're treated to that little epilogue , and then we can all go home , right ? 
wrong . 
the movie goes on for another half hour ! 
continental drift is the indy 500 compared to the pace of holy man ! 
the only thing holy about holy man will surely be the number of people exclaiming " holy ! @#% that movie was awful ! " 
this one is for the truly pious . 

 " . . . because i'm a scientist . 
that's what we do ! " 
--- dr . alexander mccabe ( bob gunton ) , in response to why he created evil bats . 
alright folks , stop me if you've heard this one : genetically altered animals wreak havoc on a town and a small band of locals , assisted by a specialist in the particular animal's field , must team up to stop the mutant creatures before they can multiply and spread across the earth . 
oh yeah , the military is on their way to bomb the town as well , so they are running short on time . 
sound familiar ? 
such is the plot of the destination films release of bats . 
dina meyer stars as the " bat specialist " sheila , who is pulled from her research ( along with her annoying sidekick , played with irritating deftness by leon ) in order to help a small texas town figure out why some local citizens and animals have been chewed to death recently . 
with the help of the local sheriff ( lou diamond phillips ) , a cdc official ( carlos jacott ) , and a scientist ( bob gunton ) , sheila discovers it is indeed bats ( who have been genetically altered by gunton's character to be more aggressive and omnivorous , in order to be used as a military weapon ! ) . 
i have to say here that i knew exactly what i was getting into going into this film . 
there's not a frame of promotional footage i have seen for the film that would have led me to believe it was going to be any good . 
in this respect , the film never disappointed me . 
this film reaches a level that transcends the " so bad it's good " level and borders on the downright insane . 
the effects are awful , the script is contrived , and for most of the feature i was laughing at things that were supposed to be taken seriously ( i think ) . 
i challenge anyone to sit through the scene , where a bat stalks a baby in a crib while another bat terrorizes a patron eating at a diner , with a straight face . 
thankfully , the performances are as good as they can be considering the material the actors had to perform with . 
dina meyer has always been the highlight of any of the films she has been in ( johnny mnemonic , dragonheart , and starship troopers . . . 
the latter being the only film out of that batch with any actual merit ) , and this one is no exception . 
while one never really gets the impression that meyer's character could be a bat expert in reality , one never really cares to doubt it either . 
she gives as good a performance as could be expected , plus she's nice to look at for an hour and a half . 
lou diamond phillips is also serviceable here , as the small town sheriff turned eventual hero . 
although when we first meet his character he knows bats are the reason for what's going on in town , for some reason later on he suddenly becomes amazed to learn that the actual cause of the deaths in town are because of bats . 
the only bad performance in the film is that of leon's . 
he is relegated to the " i'm not sticking around here ! " 
character and proceeds to repeat variations of that line for the majority of the film even though he stays . 
anyone who can't immediately tell that bob gunton ( the bad guy in patch adams and countless other films ) is going to eventually turn on the gang and side with his creations before his eminent death will probably be surprised , but i highly doubt it . 
even if he hadn't been the villain in just about every film he's ever been in , so many obvious hints are given to indicate the devious act that it holds no shock whatsoever . 
in fact , his death is welcome , because it finally starts moving the plot towards the finale . 
if the plot doesn't sound ridiculous to you yet , then check out these little tidbits : a multitude of bats inexplicably disperses when a police officer cocks his pistol . 
an entire town disregards the sheriff and doctor's orders to stay indoors after a curfew is instigated , causing mass hysteria when the bats come out in full force , killing several townsfolk . 
a government official blows off shelia's instructions ( to wait until dawn to install a cooling unit in the bats' cave that will kill all of them off ) by pulling a night job , resulting in the death of an entire military unit . 
a cavern full of bat feces never ignites when a phosphorus flare is lit right in the middle of it . 
finally , to top it all off , this little texas town is showing nosferatu in it's single screen theater ( for reference , our town has over a million people in it with nearly 150 movie screens , and we're lucky to even get kevin smith's dogma ) . 
the most laughable part of the movie though comes from the ill-conceived bat puppets . 
while the actual bat attack scenes are shot with rapid fire editing ( making the scenes nearly impossible to comprehend what's going on ) , the scenes where a bat is called upon to interact with a live actor are usually shot more low-key . 
therefore we the audience get loving close-ups of the most unrealistic , rubbery bat puppets ever committed to film . 
being able to see the puppeteer's arms would be the only things that could have made these creations worse . 
after all of this , if you still decide bats might be the movie for you , don't say you haven't been warned . 
trust me when i say that it's a lot more fun to trash than it is to sit through . 
i just wish that dina meyer would be cast in more roles or at least choose better films to appear in . 
she's definitely a talent that is going to waste in films like these . 

here i sit at my computer about to write my review of the recent action comedy " bait " starring jamie foxx and david morse . 
this is a review i don't even want to write because i'd just be laying the same criticisms on it that i would with any other so-generic-and-predictable-it's-beyond-ridiculous piece of hollywood fluff . 
if they're not going to give us , the audience , just a little credit and put something together with half a brain , why should i waste my time and mental energy criticising it ? 
last summer i took this same approach with my review of " the mummy , " in that review i just quoted phrases my reviews of other sub-par movies . 
i think i shall do the same thing here but with a few less quotes ( not all are applicable ) . 
i hope this goes to show you what i think of " bait " and why you can find out all you need to know about it without having to take a wild guess . 
it's genuinely unfunny ( i , and the other audience members only laughed once during the entire two hours ) , unoriginal and unthrilling . 
it's not so bad to the point where it's fun to watch because of its badness and it's no so bad you absolute loathe it and are pained by watching it , it's just such a cliche in and of itself , that , uhh . . . 
lost my train of thought . 
anyways , here's those quotes , enjoy ! 
 " getting an audience's attention right from the beginning plays a major role in how today's films work . 
we want to have something exciting to watch , not a slow build-up of a story ( god forbid ! ) , and this film plays right into the mainstream's hands . . . " 
- review of " armageddon . " 
 " it's clear the film doesn't want to waste time on reality and thus the attempt to establish plausability ( the most minimal amount necessary ) comes across as a half-assed effort . 
supporting characters and shady sup-plots are introduced , but as is the case with films made up of a large cast of characters , only a handful have any real significance . . . 
there's a fine line separating homage from plagiarism . . . , " - review of " godzilla " ( 1998 ) 
 " unfortunately , as is the case with most modern thrillers , once the film showed potential for authenticity and intelligence , the cliches and action sequences take over , " - review of " the jackal . " 
chad'z movie page is back after heavy renovation . 
reviews of nearly all mainstream movies playing today ! 
get my reviews of everything playing at your local cineplex so you can better make an informed decision on what to see . 
don't forget to vote on my poll and sign the guestbook ! 

steve soderbergh's " sex , lies , and videotape , " which won the grand prize at the cannes film festival in 1989 , arguably began the resurgence of independent films . 
made on a shoestring budget of $1 . 2 million , with then relatively unknown actors , it is a provocative , thoroughly original drama . 
the film mostly focuses on the four central characters , all in their late 20's-early 30's . 
ann ( andie macdowell ) , an unfulfilled housewife , is married to john ( peter gallagher ) , an insensitive lawyer , who , unbeknownst to her , is having an affair with her younger sister , cynthia ( laura san giacomo ) . 
complicating matters even worse is graham ( james spader , who won best actor at cannes ) , john's old college buddy , who comes to stay at their house . 
ann is absolutely won over by him , even though she clearly has stated that she has very little interest in sex . 
that is the set-up for the last hour of the picture , and since the film is entitled , " sex , lies , and videotape , " it is best to keep the rest of the story developments at bay so that they will come as a genuine surprise . 
director steven soderbergh has proven to be a wildly offbeat filmmaker , ranging from the independent , to the mainstream ( 1998's " out of sight " ) , to the downright kafkaesque ( 1997's " schizopolis " ) . 
he is the type of director who obviously takes a lot of chances , and believes in the work that he does , and , " sex , lies , and videotape , " is probably his most confident , and maybe even best , to date . 
the performances are superb from all four leads , but macdowell stands out in what is probably the main character . 
she is always a very winning actress , but this is probably her most three-dimensional role that she has had ( with a close second being altman's 1993 mosaic , " short cuts " ) . 
the other parts are perfectly cast as well , from spader's ominous graham , to gallagher's self-involved john , to giacomo's outspoken cynthia . 
the final act of the film , especially , comes right out of left field , and turns out to be both shocking and oddly touching , and it would be criminal to give away the film's secrets . 
suffice to say that , through one powerful sequence , ann is able to somewhat come out of her shell , and john learns a valuable lesson about honesty , as well as deception . 
the film has one fault , however . 
the characters are almost all emotionally cold and isolated from one another , and often unlikable . 
if there had been a few extra scenes with gallagher , it probably would have helped , since his relationship with macdowell isn't quite as explored as i would have liked . 
 " sex , lies , and videotape , " although minorly flawed , is still easily a brave and adult motion picture that is far more mature and honest about its subject matter than the usual film . 
soderbergh clearly knew what he was doing while he was making it , and the final product certainly proves this . 

topless women talk about their lives falls into that category that i mentioned in the devil's advocate : movies that have a brilliant beginning but don't know how to end . 
it begins by introducing us to a selection of characters who all know each other . 
there is liz , who oversleeps and so is running late for her appointment , prue who is getting married , geoff , liz's boyfriend , neil , her previous boyfriend , ant who has written a screenplay . 
for the first hour , we get to know these people through everyday activities , as they talk on the phone , go out to dinner , hang clothes on the line . 
the interactions seem so truthful and guileless that it is almost as if the film-makers hid cameras around the place and filmed these people unbeknownst to them . 
at times , the events border on the ridiculous , like the screening of the film , but they still seem in keeping with the characters and their lives . 
this doesn't sound like a brilliant premise for a film - " we just follow a lot of people around who are vaguely related " - but it's the execution of the idea that makes topless women talk about their lives so engrossing . 
unfortunately this level of honesty isn't maintained . 
with about half an hour to go , a sense of impending doom invades topless women talk about their lives and from there is descends into melodrama . 
such a disappointment after such a brilliant start . 
the actors are all quite good with ms . danielle cormack as liz being particularly impressive . 
the energy of her character is palpable and is a major reason the movie is so watchable . 
a lot of the performances are a bit rough around the edges but this suits totally the documentary feel of the film . 
it seems like these are real people we are watching rather than actors playing roles . 
that is why the melodramatic turn of events comes as such a shock . 
up till that point , i was transported to this world where these real but mildly insane events were taking place . 
while the final half hour is not beyond the realms of possibility , it's unlikely in a way that is jarring to someone caught up in the world of the film . 
not just the events , but also the tone of some of the end is wrong , clashing strongly with the sense of fun that has preceded it . 
this is not to say that topless women talk about their lives is not a good film . 
as stated above , the first hour is superb and even the end is above average . 
it just takes a turn which means that an otherwise brilliant movie loses some of its gloss . 

defending your life is an imaginative vision of the afterlife from the twisted mind of writer-director albert brooks , who also stars in the comedy . 
after dying in a car crash , on his birthday of all days , brooks wakes up in judgement city , a satirical rendition of purgatory where higher beings evaluate the lives of newly deceased earthlings . 
brooks has five days to convince two judges that he's worthy of passing on to higher plains of existence . 
enter rip torn as the slick lawyer who defends brooks in court against prosecutor lee grant . 
during his " trial , " brooks must view episodes of his life on a movie screen , and these scenes are both hysterically funny and painfully poignant . 
it's impossible to resist chuckling ( and cringing ) at brooks as he and torn try to explain away his cowardly behavior on earth . 
torn , in particular , is in vintage comic form , and he walks away with the picture . 
the movie also features meryl streep , appealing as the love-interest , and shirley maclaine , who pops up in a hilarious cameo . 
while the film is uneven , many of its gags are price less . 
take , for example , the food in judgement city : it's always the most delicious you've ever tasted . . . 
and it's also calorie-free--so chow down ! 

who would have thought ? 
jim carrey does drama . 
when i first saw the advertisement for the truman show , i thought , " what a hilarious idea for a movie ! " 
however , it was an even better premise for a drama . 
the truman show takes us into a world that revolves around one man . 
that man is truman burbank ( jim carrey ) . 
truman has no clue what is really going on in his world and frankly , cristof wants to keep it that way . 
christof is the " god " of this made-up world . 
he keeps everything running and gives the actors their roles . 
there were a few attempts to tell truman about his world , but they failed and life went on as normal . 
the opening parts of the film introduce to truman's world . 
we see what he is doing at his current age , then we get a flashback at his past . 
it may seem a tad boring , but it is so intriguing that you will fall in love with the film right from the start . 
the film can be described in one word : weird . 
it seems like such a simple idea , yet it is something that a majority of us would never think of , but andrew niccol did . 
it seems like a warped idea , but it is andrew's idea and he did wonders with it . 
jim carrey actually lived up to the hype . 
the hype , whether good or bad , always focused on carrey's ability to do drama . 
no one doubted how extraordinary this film could be , the only thing they doubted was carrey . 
and he showed them all up . 
jim carrey was snubbed at the oscars . 
i do not think he was the best actor , but he deserved the nomination . 
he plays truman burbank , the unsuspecting star of the most popular television show in the world . 
he has lived a normal life for almost thirty years , but then strange things start happening . 
he ventures into the wrong elevator . 
a light crashes in front of him . 
his father comes back and is then pulled away . 
we are constantly teased with all of this and we know it is a show , but truman does not . 
and it is just a constant progression that never gets sluggish . 
carrey is able to shed his comedy to play a major role in a major drama . 
laura linney is magnificent as the camera hungry wife . 
she plays her role as advertiser and budding star to a point . 
peter weir does not make the cast perfect , and their flaws eventually lead to truman's escape . 
the story unfolds until the show becomes too big and everything crashes down . 
despite carrey's greatness , the best performance in the truman show undoubtedly is turned in by ed harris , who plays the " god " of truman's world . 
he displays the pressure he is under , the world he has created . 
he becomes so paranoid that he believes he is a god and that truman has him to thank for his sham of a life . 
the action moves at a good pace , and rarely gets sluggish . 
but , the main point of the film is how it looks like a television show . 
it really makes you think . 
maybe your brother is an actor , maybe your best friend is in heated contract negotiations to stay on the show . 
some of the best parts of the film are when truman ventures into the wrong elevator and sees cast members drinking coffee and talking . 
or when truman tunes into the wrong station and hears orders being said for truman's arrival . 
and when christof focuses in on truman and cues the dramatic music as marlon ( noah emmerich ) delivers his dramatic line . 
all of these ideas are just perfect for the film and extremely innovative . 
i was not only enjoying the film , i was overwhelmed by genius of it . 
overall , the truman show is one of the freshest and innovative films to come out of hollywood . 
jim carrey shows that he is not just a man of a million faces , but a legitimate actor who could go down as one of the best . 
andrew niccol is responsible for the screenplay and peter weir pulled it off to perfection . 
the truman show is a must see for anyone who likes movies in general because they will be thoroughly impressed by this creative film . 

depending on your degree of cinematic acumen , last man standing is either a ) a prohibition-era remake of akira kurosawa's 1961 classic yojimbo ; b ) a prohibition-era remake of sergio leone's 1964 classic a fistful of dollars ; c ) a prohibition-era action drama with a completely original story-line . 
new line is certainly counting on the fact that there are far more potential viewers in category ( c ) than in the other two combined , much as the recent remakes of diabolique and the vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons . 
the fact is that there is yet another way of looking at last man standing , which is as the first film version of the story which nods to the _real_ source material , the dashiell hammett novel _red harvest_ . 
it also shows that kurosawa and leone knew better what to do with that material than hammett himself . 
this time around , the man with no name is played by bruce willis , a fellow with a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into the texas border town of jericho one day on his way to mexico . 
by all appearances , jericho is well on its way to becoming a ghost town , with the few remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for control of liquor coming over the border . 
one is headed by an irishman named doyle ( david patrick kelly ) ; the other is run by chicago-connected italian mobster strozzi ( ned eisenberg ) . 
calling himself john smith , the man decides that there is money to be made from the conflict , and hires himself out as an enforcer to doyle's side . 
but smith's allegiance is as uncertain as his name , and he begins to play the two sides against each other while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them . 
viewers familiar with both previous incarnations of this story will find virtually nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint , and that alone should make last man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes-cum-bastardizations . 
there is the happily ineffectual lawman ( bruce dern ) , the unhappily detained object of one of the bosses' affections ( karina lombard ) , the barkeep who becomes our anti-hero's only friend ( william sanderson ) , suspicious lieutenants ( christopher walken and michael imperioli ) to question the bosses' trust in smith , a brutal beating , and a big fire . 
director walter hill gives the proceedings his usual injection of steroids , including a pair of guns for willis which have the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity , but at least he doesn't try to turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture . 
what he _does_ do is nearly as big a mistake , and that is to provide a running voice-over narration by willis which rings of the standard hard-boiled style of pulp detective fiction . 
yes , that narration is full of cliches , but those are are not particularly troubling . 
the problem is that both yojimbo and a fistful of dollars succeeded largely on the inscrutability of their lead characters . 
they were a mystery , to the other characters in the film and to the audience , their motives never entirely clear even after they have acted , and that quality contributed to their almost mythical status . 
with john smith's voice chattering on in the background and allowing us into his every thought , he becomes more mundane , just another tough guy trying to stay alive . 
it feels like a hammett novel , all right , and hill can plead faithfulness to his text for his choice , but it simply doesn't work . 
the narration allows the man with no name to take us into his confidence , and the man with no name takes _no one_ into his confidence . 
even if you walk into last man standing as a blank slate , i can't imagine it being much more than a heavily armed minor distraction . 
willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith , but there is still a level on which he always seems like he is counting on being tougher than everyone else rather than smarter than everyone else . 
christopher walken plays doyle's brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft-spoken psychos , and there isn't another single character whom makes even the slightest impression . 
with no compelling antagonist for smith , there is no build-up towards the expected showdown , and when it does come , that showdown is over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss was about . 
cinematographer lloyd ahern ( who also did the only noteworthy work on hill's 1995 flop wild bill ) creates some nifty sunburned vistas , but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire and the next bit of counter-productive narration . 
sometimes when someone sees a lackluster remake of a revered original , they'll wonder what all the talk was about . 
in the case of last man standing , it is those who know the originals who will wonder what all that talking was about . 

nearly every film tim burton has directed has been an homage to the horror genre -- " frankenweenie , " " beetlejuice , " " batman , " " edward scissorhands , " " ed wood , " " mars attacks ! " 
-- yet none of them have been horror films . 
 " sleepy hollow " is his first attempt to actually scare people . 
i greeted the prospect with high anticipation ; burton's whole career seemed to be leading up to this . 
i left disappointed . 
andrew kevin walker's screenplay takes only the character names from the classic short story " the legend of sleepy hollow . " 
in the movie ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is a new york city police constable who is trying to introduce scientific methods of investigation to his superiors . 
ichabod is dispatched to the small town of sleepy hollow to investigate a series of murders . 
several of the town's leading citizens have been decapitated by the headless horseman . 
although he rejects the ghost story the town elders tell him , ichabod finds that the facts of the case confound his scientific reasoning . 
he also discovers that the killings are not random , that the victims are tied together by a secret . 
along the way ichabod gets help from a bewitching ( literally ) young woman ( christina ricci ) and the son of one of the murder victims ( marc pickering ) . 
my reaction : ho-hum . 
the plot is an accumulation of cliches without even the slightest touch of originality to make it interesting . 
that in itself is forgivable ; hollywood constantly tries to sell us used products in new packages . 
however , burton's attempts at inducing fright come off as goofy . 
it might be his background -- in his previous movies , goofy was the goal . 
along the same lines , it doesn't help that creature designer ( and producer ) kevin yagher has done his best work for the tongue-in-cheek tales from the crypt tv series . 
a witch's eyes and tongue shoot out like roger rabbit's , a tree spurts blood like it's in a monty python sketch , and the headless horseman . 
 . 
 . 
well , he's a guy without a head . 
 . 
 . 
on a horse ( boo ! ) . 
the performances are also awful . 
although he's impressed me with his work in other films , depp doesn't seem to know what to do with ichabod , and his dialogue is hampered by stilted diction that's supposed to pass for an 18th century accent . 
ricci seems to put all her effort into seeming enigmatic , which guarantees that we won't sympathize with her character . 
the actor who is revealed at the end to be the villain comes off as ridiculously cartoonish . 
the only pleasure generated by the cast comes from surprise cameos by christopher lee , martin landau , and christopher walken . 
i wonder if this movie was originally conceived as part of francis ford coppola's projected series of gothic adaptations , a series that produced only " bram stoker's dracula " and " mary shelley's frankenstein . " 
coppola is an executive producer for " sleepy hollow , " and the script reflects his interest in early forms of " moving pictures , " particularly in a toy that ichabod carries which blends two pictures to create an optical illusion . 
 ( there's a bird on one side of the card , a cage on the other . 
when the card is flipped rapidly , the bird appears to be caged . ) 
bottom line : the hollow isn't the only thing that's sleepy . 

there ? s nothing quite like a gory anime . 
really , and this is the truth , no other genre in film gets away with such violence without a word being said in the media about it . 
with anime , a common shot is watching a body getting quickly cut in two , and the rest of the insides falling out seconds afterword . 
this is a standard practice in anime , or at least the half dozen or so titles that i ? ve seen . 
vampire hunter d is a gory , gory film . 
if they ever made a live version of the film , it would be banned in several countries and given a rating somewhere below xxx . 
it ? s not that it ? s gore is unique - it ? s just like other gory animes - but this one was supposed to stand out because of the complexity it ? s story , characters , animation , etc . . . 
it really didn ? t . 
it was disgusting and gruesome , which overshadowed the story , what little of it there was . 
it seems that in the not too distant future vampires and evil control the world , because god knows that our local police force just can ? t seem to get a handle on vampires in the movies . 
one evening , a blond peasant girl , drawn to look 17 and innocent ( a foreshadow that we will see her naked , i guessed early on it would be in the shower or in a rape scene ) is out fighting evil in her local forest preserve when she stumbles onto the private property of a ten thousand year old vampire ( insert strom thurmand joke here . ) 
of course , he never put a ? no trespassing ? sign on his yard , so one can ? t really blame her , but he ? s upset anyway and demands retribution . 
she gets the obligatory bite on the neck ( aren ? t there other places to get blood from ? 
it seems like a bite in the elbow would do well enough . 
if it's good enough for doctors to draw blood from , then why do vampires stray from that sight ? ) 
to fight the spell , she enlists the help of a mysteriously tall , dark and handsome vampire hunter ( you guessed it , his name is d ) . 
the vampire hunter is torn between fighting vampires , being attracted to the 17 year old peasant girl and finding reasons not to talk too much . 
you see , like all heroes in these kinds of stories , he ? s a brooder , who ? s sole purpose in life is to remain really , really silent . 
when he speaks , it ? s in cliches . 
heroes like this are bad when they ? re live , even worse when animated . 
later the vampire hunter storms the castle to meet the big bad vampire , who wants to marry the peasant girl because he ? s bored after 10 , 000 years of living ( the only clever vampire insight made in the movie ) , will vampire hunter d rush to save her in time ? 
will we see blood and intestines spattering on every place imaginable ? 
in it ? s defense , the animation , when focusing on being original rather than recycling anime slicing , could at times be original . 
the talking hand was clever - and i think the inspiration for a skateboard-related logo . 
and that ? s the best defense i can think of . 
i understand that vampire hunter d is supposed to be a fave among anime fans , but i really don ? t see it . 
it ? s an excuse to watch blood dripping from teeth , blood exploding out of eye sockets and horses necks , and most importantly , like all violent anime , it is an excuse to see animated breasts . 
why ? 
what is the point of that ? 
maybe i have to understand the genre and look past the obsessive gore and mysogny . 
i ? m not a prude , i just don ? t think it ? s warranted . 
it puts itself so far out in front of the movie that everything else gets lost . 
is there a neccesity in seeing a 17 year old in the shower ? 
of course not ? it ? s done for shock . 
it ? s tasteless and despicable . 

 " payback , " brian helgeland's inauspicious directing debut ( coincidentally , he previously penned the award-winning screenplay for 1997's " l . a . confidential " ) , is a wildly uneven and thoroughly unpleasant revenge thriller that takes one idea---a movie with non-stop violence , death , and villains---and runs with it , or should i say , barely manages to crawl away with it . 
mel gibson , in yet another disappointing picture ( " conspiracy theory " and " lethal weapon 4 , " anyone ? ) , stars as the reprehensible villain/hero , porter , a man who becomes determined to get his 50% share of $140 , 000 , which he stole in a robbery , back when his partner-in-crime ( gregg henry ) and drug-addicted wife ( deborah kara unger ) double-cross him , shoot him , and leave him for dead . 
porter is not dead , however---not by a long shot---as he quickly rehabilitates and , along with his loyal prositute girlfriend , rosie ( maria bello ) , sets out to make everyone involved in the scam pay . 
the tagline for " payback " is , " get ready to root for the bad guy , " and sure enough , this is true , as pretty much every significant character who appears is crooked in some way . 
i wouldn't have a problem with this offbeat detail if the painfully thin story had been of any interest , but it wasn't , and therefore , i found myself having an especially laborious time investing myself into a wide array of character that have absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsoever . 
no attempt is made to flesh the roles into three-dimensional characters , and there are no vacant signs that anyone has any sort of humanity in them . 
just because the protagonist , a " bad guy , " is played by mel gibson doesn't mean i will " root for him , " and i didn't . 
quite the contrary , every person in the movie deserved to die a gory death ( although some of them did , anyway , just to spice up the dull proceedings ) . 
since none of the respectable actors in " payback " actually have human beings to play , only one performance managed to stand out . 
lucy alexis liu ( of t . v . 's " ally mcbeal " ) , who plays a spicy s&m dominatrix , brightens up every scene she is in , and has a definite flair for comedy , something i would have liked to have seen more of , since most of the humor fell with a resounding splat . 
meanwhile , gibson , who is perfectly fine here , sleepwalks through a role that is not the least bit challenging . 
unger , who made an impression in 1997's " the game , " is surprisingly wasted and it is difficult to see why she took such a part since she disappears ten minutes in , and only has two purproses : ( 1 ) to get high on heroin , and ( 2 ) because she plays a key part in an early flashback . 
finally , kris kristofferson appears in a throwaway role during the climax , and this unnecessary plot development sticks out like a sore thumb ( tellingly , he didn't appear in the original cut of the film , but was cast when extensive reshoots took place months later ) . 
like most action movies , the star often takes a licking but keeps on ticking . 
in the course of the 102-minute running time of " payback , " porter is shot three times in the back , hit by a van , beaten up , and has his feet smashed with a sledgehammer . 
and guess what ? 
not only does he survive the whole ordeal , but he is happy-go-lucky in the penultimate sequence ( and can still walk ! ) , 
even though he looks like he had recently substituted for a punching bag . 
 " payback " is not , in any way , an entertaining film , even though i am sure the makers hoped it would be with all the graphic carnage that goes on , but take away that violence and what you are basically left with is a blank screen . 
perhaps director helgeland would have been smart to consider this , so he could have at least added a few worthwhile elements , like a fresh storyline and characters whom you could even remotely stand to be around for a few hours . 

sometimes i find 19th century british costume dramas a little hard to relate to . 
it's not the time or the distance , it's the rules and conventions of a social class that deserves resentment rather than sympathy . 
yet somehow , the movies are all well made and i always get caught up in the story . 
the wings of the dove fits the pattern . 
kate ( helena bonham carter ) and merton ( linus roache ) are in love . 
merton , a newspaper writer , would like to marry kate . 
but kate's " job " , if you will , is to be a member of the british upper class . 
her father lost all of her family's money , but a wealthy aunt agreed to take care of her until she married a nice rich man . 
naturally , a newspaper writer's wages don't count as " rich . " 
kate leads him on , but she always ends up giving him the cold shoulder , ultimately because he's not marriageable . 
kate's american friend millie ( alison elliot ) stops in for a visit on her way to venice . 
at a party , millie catches a glimpse of merton and likes what she sees . 
kate realizes that if merton were introduced to millie , he might forget about her . 
it appears that she is trying to spare him from the heartbreak of their inevitable breakup . 
merton sees what kate is doing and resents her for it . 
he is still in love with kate , and will accept no substitute . 
the three of them , along with a fourth friend ( elizabeth mcgovern ) end up on holiday in venice together , where their interactions are quite complicated . 
let's sum up : millie has fallen for merton . 
merton has no feelings for millie because he is still in love with kate . 
kate loves him but can't marry him , so on the one hand she's trying to match him up with someone who will make him happy , but on the other hand she's jealous of them as a couple . 
a clear solution presents itself to kate when she realizes that millie is very sick - dying , in fact . 
at this point she decides that merton should marry millie until she dies . 
millie will leave her money to merton , who will then be rich enough to marry kate . 
she lets merton know of her schemes and , since it will help him win kate , he reluctantly agrees . 
kate leaves venice so that the two m's can be alone together . 
merton finds that pretending to love millie is a lot like actually loving her . 
he's not sure he can separate the two . 
kate finds that she's not so sure she really wants her merton falling in love with and marrying anyone else . 
the brilliant scheme proves to be painful to all involved . 
without revealing the details , suffice it to say that the situation ends badly . 
the title refers to the object of merton's vain hope that something might lift him from his predicament . 
one is left with feelings of regret and despair . 
what started as such a promising relationship was damaged by greed , anger , and jealousy . 
an interesting thought struck me after the movie was over , and that is that the wings of the dove almost fits the story line of a film noir . 
a couple conspires to cheat someone out of their money so they can live happily ever after . 
their involvement in the deception makes each less attractive to the other , and after a few things go wrong , the whole idea seems like an awful life-ruining mistake . 
i wouldn't call the wings of the dove a film noir , but the comparison is interesting . 
as i have acknowledged before , i am not a wonderful judge of acting , but i liked the performances from roache and elliot . 
roache successfully conveyed his character's ambivalence toward millie : near the end , he hugs her , at first staring into space , as if he's thinking about his plan with kate , then giving that up to fully embrace millie . 
millie's part didn't require as much range , but elliot gave her the necessary bubbly personality that made her irresistible . 
i will probably file away the wings of the dove in the same low-traffic corner of my mind as sense and sensibility and persuasion . 
their settings are far removed from my personal experience - geographically , historically , and socially . 
still , the movies are well made and the stories inevitably win me over . 

in " the astronaut's wife , " charlize theron plays a young woman with a nervous demeanor , pixie-hairdo and demon spawn unwittingly growing in her belly . 
if only her name wasn't jillian , the makers of this embarrassing bit of sci-fi shlock could have come up with a far more appropriate title : " rosemary's species . " 
what a shame it is to see such a gifted actress as theron - oscar-worthy in " the devil's advocate " - struggle with the lamest rip-off of a screendom classic in recent memory . 
ok , maybe " the astronaut's wife " deviates from " rosemary's baby " turf for its set-up , which finds our heroine terrorized not by satan's minions but her possessed husband ( johnny depp ) , a shuttle pilot whose mission mishap leaves him , um , a changed man . 
predictably , he and the missus get it on in a sequence best described as unpleasant , his evil seed impregnating her with twins and realizing that great " bowfinger " line about " alien love . " 
theron's " advocate " character faced a similar dilemma , the horror there resonating strongly . 
 " astronaut " provides only artificial anxiety . 
last year's equally noodle-headed " species ii " spun a similar premise about the breeding habits of an extraterrestrial on earth , but at least that movie more or less knew it was garbage . 
 " the astronaut's wife " is grave and humor-free , passing its increasingly silly story off as full-fledged serious , right down to an ambiguous finale that isn't even going to satisfy those who've stayed with it thus far . 
here's a hint : it involves lots of water , electrical equipment , a special effect from " the abyss " and the tots who doubled up as adam sandler's co-star in " big daddy . " 
draw your own conclusions . 
director/writer rand ravich coats the proceedings in dynamic sights masterminded by legendary " e . t . " 
cinematographer allen daviau , but too often favors the film's visual presentation over the story he's trying to tell . 
this bodes horribly for each dramatic development , like the surfacing of a suspicious nasa official ( " speed " 's joe morton ) to instigate jill's slow and stupid comprehension of the truth . 
his hyper-erratic behavior is probably supposed to give wife a paranoid edge . 
instead , he adds to the phoniness . 
theron and depp are certainly beyond this junk and will get other chances to prove themselves this fall - she as part of an imposing ensemble case in the john irving adaptation " cider house rules , " he in the lead of tim burton's eagerly-awaited " sleepy hollow . " 
undeserving of such talent , " the astronaut's wife " manages to be derivative , dull and uninvolving despite its seemingly ripe potential for unintentional laughs . 
in space , no one can hear you scream . 
but in a movie theatre , everyone can hear you snore . 

while watching " shallow grave , " i found myself periodically noticing thematic similarities to the coens' " blood simple . " 
both are good films in which several characters , none of whom are the most conscientious to have walked the earth but still are not really evil , indulge in an act of deception that soon necessitates more serious crimes . 
the body count rises , and before long seemingly normal people have blood on their hands . 
both films are also flawed , but for different reasons . 
 " blood simple " is unrelentingly dark and moody , but its characterizations were a little hollow . 
 " shallow grave , " on the other hand , is nearly flawless for an hour and twenty minutes , and then the filmmakers throw away much of what they'd accomplished for a more standard , audience-pleasing ending . 
the events of the film were sufficiently intense and disturbing that i honestly felt quite troubled by what i was witnessing on screen most of the time , yet there was a slight grin on my face at the end . 
as the film begins , we are introduced to alex ( ewan mcgregor ) , juliet ( kerry fox ) , and david ( christopher eccleston ) , a scottish trio living in an apartment in glasgow . 
they are all sarcastic and occasionally obnoxious , but other than that they seem like a fairly normal bunch . 
a man named hugo moves into the apartment's remaining vacancy , and the next morning he is found dead of a drug overdose . 
juliet is about to call the police when alex discovers that hugo had brought with him a suitcase filled to the brim with cash ( presumably from criminal activities ) . 
the three eventually decide to keep the money and cover up the death ; after a drawing of straws , the particularly unenviable task of mutilating the body so as to make it unidentifiable and burying it falls to david , who had been the most reluctant to partake in the scheme from the beginning . 
all of this transpires in the first twenty minutes or so of the film , and part of what makes " shallow grave " so brilliant for a while is that i honestly had no idea what was coming next . 
other than the obvious question of why they don't report the death and simply hide the cash , which is not addressed , the plotting and characterization , while sometimes predictable , worked in a way that kept my attention and , on more than one occasion , gave me chills . 
i will , therefore , attempt to continue this review in a way that doesn't give away too much of the plot . 
broadly , the trio are in danger due to hugo's underworld connections , as two goons search for the money and kill several people in the process . 
a police inspector ( ken stott ) is clearly suspicious and visits the apartment , asking pointed questions and trying to unnerve the three suspects by exchanging banal and weirdly humorous bits of dialogue with a junior detective . 
david , meanwhile , becomes increasingly paranoid , moves into the attic , and develops an affinity for sharp objects . 
director danny boyle effectively creates an atmosphere of mounting tension and suspicion in the apartment , and finally the three seem ready to turn against each other . 
while i do not consider myself the " happy endings are automatically stupid " type , i thought that " shallow grave " really should have ended in tragedy - a realistic analysis of the story up to the last ten minutes of the film would indicate that all three characters were probably about to end up in prison , in the mental hospital , or in the morgue . 
this could have been accomplished , quite credibly , but then boyle and screenwriter john hodge seem to flinch and opt for a more conventional " caper " ending in which we get a kick out of seeing who outsmarted whom , and nothing more . 
granted , this isn't really a " happy " ending , but it's still pretty light-hearted compared to what preceded it . 
i really shouldn't say anything more about the ending as far as details go , but let me add that it seemed not only shallow and lazy but also inconsistent with the rest of the film and not very believable . 
yes , this ending made me crack a smile for a couple of minutes , but ultimately it left me feeling as if i'd been cheated . 
still , " shallow grave " was brilliant most of the way through , and it does at least meet the minimum requirements for an entertaining thriller , and i am therefore awarding it three stars . 
i guess i just can't help but think about that fourth star that boyle and hodge let slip away . 

words i thought i'd never write : the sequel to urban legend lacks the grace , wit , and power of the original . 
put the gun to my head , pull the trigger , and put me out of my misery . 
better yet , put the horror genre out of its misery . 
when you've finished watching urban legends : final cut , you'll share my same grim point of view thanks to the horrible acting , terrible script , and ridiculous directing which has become all too common today . 
urban legends : final cut is a smorgasbord of stolen movie ideas ( mainly from the blair witch project and scream ) : fabulous people with perfect teeth and skin , one creepy film school , and a dog eating a freshly removed kidney from one of the movie's hapless victims . 
urban legends delivers a story about a bunch of film students working on their thesis films to win the coveted " hitchcock award " which guarantees the winner a director deal in hollywood . 
one female filmmaker ( jennifer morrison , the freaky dead girl from stir of echoes ) writes a fiction script based on a serial killer who kills his victims according to " urban legend " tales . 
suddenly , her entire crew starts getting bumped off with urban-legendary homicides , but the bodies are always missing and she is often the only witness to the killings . 
the killer wears a fencing mask and a long black overcoat , looking like a scorned olympian out to avenge his defeat in sydney . 
why this is scary is never explained . 
of course , the golden rule of sequels is that there must be least one recurring character for continuity's sake . 
urban legends has one minor , recurring character from the original who we never cared about anyway ( the security guard , of all people ) . 
the other central problem is that this character has already seen the urban legend killings once before , but she's utterly clueless about what's going on around her . 
call it suspension of disbelief . 
this film is also a prime example of how horror films are now completely dead in the water . 
the last decent horror film was the blair witch project , and that seemed more like a snuff film than fiction . 
the stalking killer with crazy motivation has become a tired clich ? , as everyone seems to have forgotten : real horror is not about what is seen but about what is unknown . 

i know that " funnest " isn't a word . 
 " fun " is a noun , and therefore cannot be conjugated like an adjective . 
but that's the word that came to me right after viewing " chicken run . " 
no wonder : this is the kind of movie that reduces you to childish expressions , like " that was the funnest movie i've ever seen ! " 
so to hell with webster's -- " chicken run " is one of the funnest movies i've seen in a while . 
i can't remember the last time i've seen anything funner . 
the chickens at tweedy's farm are up to something . 
living in a concentration camp-like atmosphere , they are led by one plucky hen called ginger ( voice of julia sawalha ) who continually comes up with plans for escape -- and always gets caught , subsequently spending day after day in the coal box . 
one night , a brash american rooster flies in over the fence , calling himself rocky ( mel gibson ) , famous flying rooster and circus performer . 
rocky promises to teach the chickens how to fly , and the situation grows more desperate as the nefarious mrs . tweedy ( miranda richardson ) decides to abandon the farm's egg-selling plan for a pie-selling plan . 
she orders a huge pie-making machine , cackling , " chickens go in ; pies come out . " 
what sort of pies ? 
chicken pies , of course . 
co-director nick park and his studio , aardman animation , produced three oscar-winning short films : " creature comforts , " " the wrong trousers , " and " a close shave . " 
the latter two were the second and third installments of a trilogy starring the delightful team wallace & gromit , a man and his dog famous for getting themselves into increasingly peculiar adventures . 
part of what made the " wallace " films brilliantly entertaining was park's uncanny ability to make an old story seem new . 
 " the wrong trousers , " for example , pulled out a lot of old hitchcockian suspense tricks , and " a close shave " owed a great deal of inspiration to classic detective stories . 
but in the hands of park and his team , the stories felt fresh and inspired , and not the least bit contrived . 
now teaming with co-director peter lord , park has created a similar creature in " chicken run . " 
the plot is largely lifted from " the great escape " ( watch for a quick reference to the ball-bouncing scene ) , with some spielberg-inspired action sequences providing the excitement . 
thing is , the film doesn't feel like it's been lifted from somewhere else ; " chicken run " feels fresh , alive , like nothing else ever done . 
part of it is the original idea : who in the world came up with the idea to make a prisoners-of-war movie starring chickens ? 
park and lord milk the incongruity for all it's worth : the characters treat their situation as if it were dead serious , and to them , it is . 
but they're * chickens * , so it's funny to us . 
another thing that helps " chicken run " ( and most of park's films ) succeed is the animators' subtle way of giving nods to the very films they're cribbing . 
there are references to " the great escape , " obviously , and " stalag 17 . " 
the chase sequence inside the chicken grinder parodies both " raiders of the lost ark " and " indiana jones and the temple of doom . " 
there's even a nod to " the blues brothers , " if you can believe it , and the filmmakers even get in a little light-hearted ribbing at the expense of their star voice actor , taking a couple of very subtle jabs at mel gibson's nationality and film history . 
the " braveheart " reference is a hoot if you catch it . 
when you consider just how fine a line resides between a funny parody and a redundant one , " chicken run " is downright brilliant in its execution . 
consider this : since july of last year , i've seen dozens upon dozens of " blair witch project " parodies , on television , on the radio , and online . 
out of all those , maybe one or two were amusing , the rest tiresome . 
why ? 
because once you got past the thought that " they're parodying that&#8216 ; blair witch' movie , " most of the parodies had nothing to offer -- no insight , no original idea , no greater purpose . 
they were only funny if you had seen the movie ; otherwise , you got nothing . 
conversely , " chicken run " doesn't lean on its parodies -- the film references are never the sole focus of any scene . 
if you've never seen " indiana jones , " the chase sequence is still fun . 
even if you have no idea who mel gibson is , rocky remains an interesting character . 
park , lord , and screenwriter karey kirkpatrick realize that an audience does not need a parody shoved in their faces before it's understood , and as a result , " chicken run " is filled with visual and verbal jabs that are never too obvious , but not quite vague either . 
enjoyment of this movie doesn't require knowledge of film history , but if you've got it , " chicken run " is that much richer . 
the voice cast turns in uniformly lively performances , and the characters they play are given so many subtle nuances that it's hard not to fall in love with every one of them . 
ginger is perfect , spunky and opinionated , but with a soft heart that forbids her to leave her companions behind , and julia sawalha ( known as the cute mousy girl on " absolutely fabulous " ) nails it . 
she has warm , human chemistry with gibson , whose rocky hides his personal doubt under a brash gung-ho veneer . 
the characters' inevitable romance doesn't feel contrived , but sweet . 
poor mr . tweedy ( tony haygarth ) suspects the chickens are organizing in some way , but his limited intellect prevents him from figuring things out , and his overbearing wife certainly isn't any help . 
jane horrocks delivers a lovely voice characterization as tragically optimistic babs ( a hen that runs away with most of the best one-liners , all while perpetually crocheting a sweater ) , and two supply-trading rats that seem to have walked straight out of a monty python sketch nearly steal the show during the lively central swing-dancing sequence . 
they even come up with an inspired riff on something that's baffled scholars and theologians alike for decades : the chicken vs . egg dilemma . 
one might have expected this inevitable joke to come off as wearisome , but as with most of " chicken run , " it comes as a delightful surprise . 
the film manages to cross all barriers ; it should be accessible to both children and adults , brits and yanks , rats and chickens . 
the animation is first-rate . 
remember that this was all done the old-fashioned way , with actual humans moving clay figurines around on a tiny set bit by painstaking bit , and you see just how truly remarkable " chicken run " really is . 
this movie possesses that same quality that makes pixar studios' animation great : precise and unwavering attention to detail . 
as in such top-notch family fare as " a bug's life " or " toy story 2 , " " chicken run " has something to offer in nearly every frame . 
certainly a passive viewer can enjoy it as a straightforward story with a worthwhile moral and some surprisingly touching scenes , but a active , attentive viewers will enjoy it even more because they'll catch all the details . 
anyway , the movie's just a boatload of fun . 
funnest damn movie i've seen all year . 

tim burton has now completed his evolution from the brilliant director of macabre stories about outcast individuals yearning for acceptance , and into a studio monkey whose name is used as part of multi-tiered marketing materials for crap movies . 
and here he hits rock bottom , with planet of the apes . 
i didn't expect much from this latest " interpretation " of pierre boulle's classic novel planet of the apes . 
i mean , how could you top the force and impact of the original film , intelligently co-scripted by rod serling ( of twilight zone fame ) combined with the overbearing chuck heston growling and yelling at those " damn dirty apes , " in one of his best roles of his career ? 
sadly , i sat down to watch burton's version of planet of the apes and within the first 20 minutes , i was checking my watch and my girlfriend ( a big fan of the original film ) started to nod off . 
this time around , the story plays out like a cross between enemy mine , braveheart , and project x . marky mark wahlberg , who was enjoyable in boogie nights and the corrupter , plays leo davidson , a hot shot u . s . air force pilot . 
leo and his crew are in search of some mysterious magnetic storms ( no real explanation given in the film ) and leo sends one of his genetically altered " smart " chimps into the storms to collect data . 
leo and his crew lose communication with the chimp , leo hops in another ship to find the monkey , and then he's thrown through some type of time-space wormhole which crashes lands on the twentieth century fox studio backlot , all mocked up to look like the amazon jungle . 
leo ends up getting captured by a group of talking apes and is sold to a slave trader named limbo ( paul giamatti ) who in turn sells leo to a chimpanzee named ari ( helena bonham carter ) . 
the kind ari then helps leo and his fellow humans escape to the mountains to find leo's ship . 
along the way , monkeys played by tim roth ( overacting his role of a vicious general named thade ) and michael clarke duncan ( who further enhances his career by playing another heavy in a bad action movie ) strive out to hunt down leo and his band of human savages , just like battlefield earth ! 
in the end , it all culminates into another braveheart rip-off human versus ape battle scene . 
while rick baker's makeup work is amazing , the script is a pathetic hodgepodge ( courtesy of three writers ) , the acting is horrible , and the " surprise " ending feels like a swing from a ball-peen hammer into the temple . 
wahlberg does not have the physical or mental presence of a chuck heston to carry the film or any of its action sequences . 
this remake , or re-interpretation , as tim burton has proclaimed it , is an insult to the intelligence and wit of the original film . 
the ethical arguments about the equality of species , fascism , and military buildup have been replaced by tremendous amounts of ridiculous dialogue , an unimaginative narrative structure , and a romance between a monkey and a human . 
even chuck heston's anti-gun tirade ( in the de rigeur cameo ) seems shallow and jokey . 
but the main element missing from this tim burton film is tim burton . 
even though his name is plastered across every billboard in america , john badham could have directed this film . 
even joel schumacher could have directed this film . 
he probably should have . 
burton's predominant themes of rejection , isolation , and the search for one's place in the universe , as seen in ed wood , edward scissorshands , and pee-wee's big adventure , are completely absent in this planet . 
i suppose that's what happen when a great director gets sucked through a wormhole . 

i tried hard not like this movie without succeeding . 
it contains parts of bringing up baby , any hepburn/tracy film , part of the plot of war games , cary grant and rosalind russell in his girl friday , elevator shaft action , train action , and murder . 
it is cute , funny , suspenseful ( a little bit ) , sexy ( a little bit ) . 
one of the bad guys was a surprise . 
the pace is fast enough , there are some " action " scenes . 
i think that this is a reasonable family summer movie for families with older kids who have already seen maverick . 
julia roberts and nick nolte are fine separately and together . 
i really identified with the julia roberts character ( wishful thinking , i know ! ) , but i do have better hair ! 
her hair , a very dull dark brown , has no color . 
she could use some highlights . 
they both do fine with their roles : he's a bored columnist with the chicago chronicle and she's a hotshot " cub " reporter with the chicago globe . 
they have great fun trying to out scoop each other to solve one case throughout this movie . 
i like the one story focus . 
other actors include charles martin smith as roberts' boss , olympia dukakis as nolte's coworker , nora dunn also with the chronicle , and marsha mason as a congresswoman . 
basically this movie is reasonably fun . 
there is a serious mystery to solve , and i enjoyed following a fun couple solving the mystery . 
it is a pleasant change of pace from movies that take themselves seriously . 
i do give successful comedy high marks . 

synopsis : upper middle class , suburban family man lester ( kevin spacey ) realizes that he is just going through the motions : he is unable to feel passion ; he is soulless , cynical , and no longer able to feel the edge between success and failure . 
everyone else around him has similar symptoms . 
lester's unassertive daughter jane ( thora birch ) is too lethargic to change her world , yet all too ready to whine and complain . 
his wife carolyn ( annette bening ) is reduced to keeping up appearances and reciting commercialist slogans . 
and these are people with a big house and a decent standard of living . 
the only person who seems able to appreciate beauty and freedom and life is the person most deprived of it : a dope-dealing teen from across the street who is practically imprisoned by a domineering , bullying father . 
when lester embarks on a mad scramble to feel the edge again , the fact that he has quit his job to feel what it's like - - and his newfound interest in exercise to impress a teenage girl - - ruffle a lot of feathers in the family . 
will lester regain his ability to appreciate life ? 
opinion : people say it all the time : you never appreciate good health until it's gone . 
likewise , people raised in fabulously pampered prosperity can become unhappy and spiteful over the dumbest , most inconsequential problems , simply because they have no clue how good they have it . 
sometimes it takes a near fall - - accidentally or through deliberate fasting - - to move out of apathy and reclaim your ability to challenge the world . 
the deprivation/appreciation cycle is a major theme of american beauty . 
american beauty is a non-formula , intelligent and articulate movie that offers fantastic performances by everyone in the cast , especially kevin spacey , who is simply gosh darn amazing this movie . 
the thing i like about american beauty is that there is no sentimental music , no hospital scene nor any overly dramatic hokum . 
the movie entertains and offers brilliant performances just as is . 
if you are in the mood for a thoughtful , non-formula flick , i highly recommend american beauty . 

bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
the matrix 
what's worse than y2k ? 
how about a fully digital future where nothing is real ? 
that's what computer programmer neo ( keanu reeves ) slowly learns as he enters the dangerous world that is the matrix , a movie directed by the wachowski brothers ( the guys behind the hip thriller bound ) . 
before you groan at the presence of reeves in the lead role , hold on . 
there's actually a story with depth here . 
it seems that a group of hackers is out to stop the system that is the matrix , led by the bald but brilliant laurence fishburne and assisted by carrie ann moss , who looks quite cool in leather , i must say . 
neo ( reeves ) is pretty much a key player in this fight , although he really doesn't look it at first . 
could this amateur be " the one " as fisburne thinks he is ? 
credit the wachowskis for putting together a great story that allows suspense to build , something that few special effects-laden films seem to do these days . 
there's plenty of effects to go around , of course , but at least there's a backbone to build them on as well . 
reeves is surprisingly good in his role as neo , particularly in a fight scene with fishburne that comes across as goofy , yet great . 
i wish the villains weren't quite so " generic " ( leftover g-men from looking for a sweet sci-fi actioner with plenty of stop-motion swooping camera angles and , of course , a motherlode of a helicopter explosion . 
now the wachowskis are headed into horror films with their next project . 
bring it on . 

reindeer games is easily the worst of the three recent films penned by ehren kruger ( scream 3 and arlington rd are the others , each derivative in their own special way ) . 
the guy can't seem to write believable dialogue ( sample from reindeer games : " rule #1 : never put a car thief behind the wheel " ) , create multi-faceted characters , or even engineer coherent plots but he sure knows how to pile on numerous nonsensical twists and turns ( no matter if each one deems the actual story increasingly unlikely ) . 
his screenplay for reindeer games turns the tables on the audience so many times that watching the film becomes something of a punishment with no reward anywhere in sight . 
i can just envision kruger laughing behind his keyboard , " oh you thought my movie was gonna go here , f * ck you jack ass , take that twist , decipher this mother f * cker ! " 
it's almost as if the writer were angry at us for shelling out money to see his stupid movie . 
and why the hell would anyone want to invest time in a movie when the screenwriter keeps changing his own rules for no reason other than to congratulate himself on how damn clever he is ? 
auteur theory be damned ; it's kruger's " style " , not the director's that winds up on screen . 
kruger has obviously never paid much mind to the old chestnut " sometimes less is more " . 
and his numerous twists can't even claim to be originals ; arlington rd's ending is a direct steal from the much better alan j . pakula thriller the parallax view , and in reindeer games we get this ol' gem ; character incriminates themself by saying something they shouldn't know ( pronouns used to protect the gender of the " character " . . . grammar 
be damned ) . 
 " how did you know that ? " 
the stunned protagonist asks , suddenly realizing that the character was in on the whole thing all along . 
 . 
 . 
since twist endings are currently so in vogue , and seeing as how kruger's screenplays usually come equipped with about three twists per ending , i guess it's no wonder why he works so frequently . 
he's quickly becoming miramax's mickey mouse ; the company has already signed him to work on several of their upcoming projects . 
this is appropriate considering that miramax ( which used to place their label on some of the most artistically daring films ) has quickly become a grindhouse for coddling foreign imports ( life is beautiful ) and freddie prinze jr . vehicles . 
their company's current logo could be " we ride the trends " . 
reindeer games stars ben affleck as rudy , a supposedly hardened criminal spending his days and nights behind bars with fantasies of pecan pies dancing atop his head . 
although affleck is given some barbed wire tattoos to insinuate bad assness , he plays the role like steve guttenberg preciously mugging through a police academy flick . 
affleck is such a puppy dog that it's impossible to believe he could survive in a harsh prison environment without becoming nearly everyone's bitch . 
the role itself is so badly written ( the character only grows balls when the plot calls for it ) , the twists so outrageous , and the directing so self consciously gritty that this is about as close to self parody as i can recall a recent " serious " movie getting . 
it may have been wiser had the film makers simply went all the way in that direction , casting jerry seinfeld as the hardened criminal and howard stern as the sniveling bad guy ( who's played here by gary sinise in yet another over the top villain performance ) 
james frain is nick , rudy's cellmate , a manslaughterer who's found a pen pal in the gorgeous ashley mason ( charlize theron ) . 
ashley is a prison groupie who sends nick many cheesecake photos of her though she's never seen one picture of him . 
which works out fine since the character is killed in a near-riot , and rudy ( who was to be paroled on the same day as nick ) takes his place , which leads to a sudden and very frenzied sex scene between ashley and rudy ( so frenzied it kinda looks like rape ) and a surprise visit from ashley's brother , gabriel ( gary sinise ) , who waltzes into their shabby hotel room flanked by his thuggish co-horts . 
he plans to rob an indian casino on christmas eve with the assistance of rudy who he thinks is nick who , according to what he wrote in the letters to ashley , used to work as a guard in the indian casino . 
though by the end , the film pulls the rug out from under us so frequently that everything i've described might as well be irrelevant . 
this is what you can expect should you chose to take this reindeer on ; several scenes in which , after catching his prey , the bad guy proceeds to stall interminably until the good guy has a chance to kill his captor and crack a stupid one-liner . 
included : two ( 2 ) scenes of two ( 2 ) different bad guys explaining their motives to the hero when they should be killing him ( one following the other no less ) . 
though it's an action film , the ending is more a talkfest where we get the whole movie explained to us by one flustered character actor after another while affleck looks on , incredulous as the audience . 
the flick was directed by john frankenheimer , a straightforward action director who lucked into the manchurian candidate early in his career , fell off the a-list following a string of flops and now , in his old age , is slowly climbing his way back up . 
it would be a success story if he were choosing better scripts but his last major film was ronin ( one of those almost but not quite movies ) which followed the island of dr . morneau 
 ( you remember , the one with marlon brando in mime make-up and a not so flattering moo-moo ) , and now this . 
he films action sequences with a minimum of quick cutting which i like considering that nowadays action scenes are commonly comprised of millisecond flash cuts strung together and laid out for a brain-zapped mtv audience to pick apart . 
problem is these action scenes ( nearly all failed escapes ) serve no purpose in the story other than to further pad out the running time and to remind the audience that their watching an action movie rather than a filmed radio play . 
character problems abound ; rudy is made to shift between sweet boy next door earnestness and hard edged wiseacre , the latter of which is not ( at least at this point ) something ben affleck is capable of pulling off . 
the former he can do with ease and often the actor coasts on his lackadaisical charm while those around him growl and swear . 
but then suddenly affleck starts growling and swearing alongside them like the class clown imitating a tarantino gangster . 
charlize theron , an extraordinary talent , is , like affleck , playing whatever part the script requires her to play , whether it be vulnerability at one moment , anger at the next . 
she never has a chance to evince any charm or make much of an impression beyond her obvious physical attributes ( frankenheimer has her needlessly pop her top to further italicize this . 
gary sinise has played this role frequently , and here , as in snake eyes , he does the snarling bad guy thing with such over the top vitriol ( the guy must be so incredibly bored of stomping through the same paces that going out of control is the only thing that keeps him interested any more ) , that it becomes more of an annoyance ( oh there he goes again ? ? ? ) than a threat . 
these are talented people who made the mistake of jumping on to a script with little but stock characters and a bag of tricks that it dully springs on its audience . 

elmore leonard has quickly become one of hollywood's favorite authors . 
out of four film adaptations in as many years , the witty and inventive out of sight gives get shorty a run for its money as the best leonard adaptation around . 
george clooney stars as jack foley , a nice bank robber . . . you 
know the type , he uses his charm and his wits rather than a gun . 
but even charming guys end up unlucky , and jack ends up in jail . 
but not for long . 
he plots an escape with the help of his best friend , and fellow robber , buddy bragg ( ving rhames ) , and their slow-witted pothead associate , glenn michaels ( steve zahn ) . 
but jack didn't count on u . s . marshal karen sisco ( jennifer lopez ) . 
appearing at the right place at the wrong time , karen gets involved in foley's escape attempt and the subsequent manhunt to bring him in . 
however , karen develops a rapport with jack foley , and finds that she begrudgingly likes the guy . 
but , can love prosper on opposite sides of the law ? 
or can karen straighten out jack before he goes too far in pursuit of just one last crime . 
clooney , who has had a string of solid , but never stellar , film roles , delivers his best performance to date . 
he blends into his role here perfectly as the risk taking jack foley , who's willing to gamble everything on the chance that karen sisco might be his true love . 
jennifer lopez does an excellent job as well . 
she actually has a trickier role than clooney , as a woman who has to balance her emotions with her sense of duty . 
she and clooney develop good chemistry together . 
the film boasts a superb ensemble . 
steve zahn gives a hilarious performance , and steals nearly every scene he's in . 
don cheadle is appropriately sinister as a violent ex-con who may or may not be teaming up with foley . 
albert brooks is enjoyable as a white collar criminal who talks too much for his own good . 
out of the cast , only dennis farina seems underused as karen's ex-lawman father . 
steven soderbergh gives the film sharp and stylistic direction . 
with an affectation for freeze frames , he delivers a unique take on the film's action and love scenes that places out of sight a notch above routine crime films . 
a recurring series of flashbacks makes the film seem more complex than it actually is . 
devoid of its bells and whistles , out of sight is actually a fairly straightforward crime story . 
however , there are only a few spots in the film that seem bare , and they pass quickly . 
with smart dialogue , good characters , and an excellent cast , out of sight easily smoothes over the rough spots in the plot and delivers on both the action and romantic fronts . 

the main problem with martin lawrence's pet project , a thin line between love and hate , like any fatal attraction variation where the protagonist is a man , is that his character is an irresponsible jerk , and if that is the case , it doesn't seem to do anything except justify the woman's actions . 
that is especially the case in lawrence's darnell wright . 
he is one of those macho guys with women lined up a mile long . 
now don't think i condone this just because i'm male . 
my philosophy is , if you are one of the few heterosexual males lucky enough to get your hands on a beautiful , kind girl , you should treat her like a princess and respect her . 
darnell doesn't think like this . 
he sleeps with these girls once and dumps them . 
and by the period in the film he discovered that his newest target , beautiful , wealthy brandi web ( played nicely by whitfield ) who runs a successful real estate business , is out to kill him for dumping her for his childdhood friend mia ( king ) , i found myself thinking , " i'm supposed to feel sorry for this guy ? " 
after all , it is largely darnell's fault . 
if he is lining up all these women , you'd think he'd have enough common sense to think it would backfire on him one day , as his mother says it does . 
but he doesn't , so you get the sense that he's not only irresponsible , but also pretty dumb . 
you especially get this sense that he's dumb after brandi tells him she killed her husband for allegedly abusing her . 
 ( i'd put my pants on in two seconds after that ! ) 
now , brandi is a psycho bitch , but it's hard not to agree with what she says to darnell during the finale about guys like him treating her like garbage . 
one final flaw , though , is letting brandi fall for darnell to begin with . 
brandi is a classy , intelligent woman with an mba from harvard , who initally resists darnell's " immature play " as she calls it , as any woman like her would in real life . 
but all of a sudden she says yes . 
but when you listen to darnell's four letter word vocabulary watch his actions , you wonder why such an intelligent woman would fall for a guy like darnell period , much less have such an unhealthy obsession for him ! 
lawrence can be good when he wants to , but in order to prove it , he needs to let other people write and direct his movies . 
look at this movie . 
four writers , as a result it's too long ( two hours , when it could've easily worked at ninety minutes ! ) and it has a lot of subplots and characters that appear and disappear as quickly as they came ( which makes me think the writers didn't get along ) , all of which isn't necessary . 
there are some bright spots , though . 
whitfield , regina king , della reese , and bobby brown all do what they can with lazily written parts , and they help it out a lot . 
and there are some funny parts ( like , for example , the scene where reese attempts to fight whitfeld for harrassing her son and damaging her property ) , but they're just not enough to sustain the film . 

some movies' pre-release buzz is so insistent on their high oscar potential that when they're finally released , everyone just goes along with it . 
thus sometimes , films unworthy of any award sans the razzie become oscar hopefuls and some even score nominations . 
last year it was the thin red line . 
this year's " winner " is the hurricane , pure unadulterated tripe that is all of a sudden being received with critical plaudits and votes in the office oscar pool . 
acclaimed director norman jewison's biopic retreads all the conventions of courtroom movies without any of the fun . 
and that's supposed to be ok because , see , it's a true story . 
it's about rubin " hurricane " carter ( denzel washington ) , a legendary african american prizefighted who is unjustly convicted of triple homicide with the help of a ghastly ( racist ! ) 
detective ( dan hedaya ) who's had it in for the " big-shot " hurricane ever since he arrested him for stabbing a white man with a knife ( in self-defense but who cares , right ? ) 
when rubin was only ten . 
he is to serve three life sentences with no possibility of parole . 
most of the film takes place when he is in his 15th year in prison . 
to the rescue -- lesra martin ( vicellous reon shannon ) and his team of wanna-be detectives . 
lesra is an african american teenager taken in by three well-off canadian white people ( hanna , unger , schreiber ) to get an education . 
lesra and his buddies go to a book sale where lesra picks out his very first book -- " the sixteenth round , " rubin's autobiography . 
immediately thereafter , schreiber's character tells lesra " sometimes we don't pick the books we read , they pick us . " 
hmmm . 
after a few visits to the prison , they become convinced of rubin's innocence and launch their own full-scale investigation even though two juries have convicted him . 
they meticulously go through all the files and revisit all the old witnesses ( i wonder if any of them might be cranky old women who slam the door in their faces ? ) and in the course of their relentlessy tedious sleuthing uncover obvious evidence confirming the hurricane's innocence that was either ignored or never seeked out during the first two proceedings . 
of course , we're already told that he's innocent . 
a movie like this is especially frustrating because we're not being shown everything significant that happened to carter during this period in his life . 
all too obviously , we're getting the hollywood watered- down version . 
that would be ok except that the parts we are getting is milked for every single drop of melodrama that the filmmakers could possibly squeeze out of it . 
it's almost cruel . 
the melodrama isn't of the entertaining kind either ; it's the hokey , rammed-down-your-throat variety where every emotion is exaggerated to the point of absurdity . 
witness the villain ferociously grinding his teeth at the final trial or the constant pseudo-saintliness of our four protagonists . 
the hurricane is your basic courtroom movie except it's a no-frills courtroom movie . 
it's formula stripped to the bare necessities . 
you have your wrongly accused black man . 
you have your melodramatic final courtroom scene . 
but there's nothing else . 
you'd expect some sort of involving investigation . 
but that's not necessary since we're implicitly informed of his innocence . 
thus the whole middle portion of the movie is reduced to the protagonist brooding . 
brooding to himself . 
brooding to other inmates . 
brooding to lesra . 
brooding to lesra's canadian friends . 
brooding in letters . 
i don't think i'll ever look at brooding the same way again . 
it wasn't long before i got tired of hearing the hurricane's exceedingly deep meditations on his condition . 
i wanted something to happen . 
as for washington's performance in the title role -- i figured i'd have to address it sooner or later considering the amount of attention it's received -- he is top notch , though still boring . 
how is that possible ? 
well , he does what jewison wanted him to do perfectly . 
unfortunately what jewison asked him to do is a load of crap . 
what a waste of a great performer . 
speaking of wastes , why the hell did john hannah agree to do this ? 
he's an extremely talented actor and i love him dearly , but what is he doing here ? 
to call his character ( along with schreiber's and unger's ) a stick figure would be a gross understatement . 
all three of them come off as veritable mother theresas , as benevolent as do-gooders come . 
if they're to play a major part in this movie , why not make them real people , with real feelings and emotions ? 
look : if you're going to make a formula movie , don't undermine the formula . 
courtroom dramas can be fun , but this is ridiculous . 
not only is it trite , it's boring . 

as bad as " mimic " was , it definitly scared me . 
 " mimic " continued the frightening hollywood trend of taking a foreign director who shows a lot of creative ingenuity and style , and completely flushing it when he comes to america to make a movie . 
director guillermo del toro was recently imported from mexico after he made the award winning and inventive horror film " cronos . " 
that movie worked because it took an unconventional story , unique characters and well written plot and dialogue to create a truly scary movie . 
in " mimic " , del toro doesn't bother to give us anything original . 
the plot is a stupid combination of " aliens " meets " species " meets " jurassic park . " 
the characters have been recycled from a few hundred other movies . 
there's nothing new in " mimic " . 
it's just a bunch of old tricks that rarely work . 
at the end of the movie , you're stuck wanting your money back . 
maybe the worst thing about the movie is that del toro followed another annoying trend of recent movies : he forgot to turn the lights on . 
i don't understand why suspense movies lately have to follow the " seven " trend and be set in dark , dank areas . 
watching " mimic " i was tempted several times to yell at the screen " turn the lights on ! 
the switch is to your right ! 
use common sense ! 
just do it ! 
you'll be able to see the monster in the corner ! " 
there's a scene where mira sorvino is standing in subway station while the lights are flickering on and off . 
it looked like the light operator was having a seizure , and sorvino didn't even notice - she just stood there looking like she was having deep thoughts . 
 " hmmm . . . . 
i think bean soup would be good for dinner tonight . " 
 " mimic " has a lot of incidental shock tactics ( boo ! 
just kidding ! ) and follows them up with the real scare , but nothing in this movie scares you . 
the audience in the theater never jumped during suspenseful moments ; i think they were bored , too . 
i shouldn't blame del toro . 
he isn't the first successful foreign director to come to hollywood and make a bad movie . 
hong kong director john woo made two of the best action films of all time , " the killer " and " hard boiled " then came to america to make the stupid " broken arrow . " 
french directors luc besson ( " la femme nikita " ) and george sluizer ( " the vanishing " ) followed woo's lead and made dumbed down versions of those movies . 
robert rodriguez , who directed the terrific low budget " el mariachi " came to hollywood and directed the horrible , high-budget " desperado . " 
i don't know why a foreign director who shows such talent in his country can't make a good american movie . 
woo finally broke through and made " face/off " , but it still isn't up to par with his earlier films . 
i get the feeling a hollywood producer sits in his office , chews on a big smelly cigar and says to the director , " welcome to america ! 
i bet you must be tired after being on that boat for so long . 
do you speak english ? 
now , i know you think you've made good movies in the past , but now you're in america , so things are a little different here . 
just remember what the american audience always wants , and you'll be fine . 
they want to see at least one big breasted woman , characters that they've seen a thousand times before ( because change scares americans ) , and you always need a cheesy feel-good ending to wrap things up . 
if you don't make that kind of movie , you'll be shining my shoes in no time . " 

depending on who you ask , the original sin was either the eating of the apple , the act of disobedience against god , or the act of betrayal . 
but in case you didn't know this , don't bother remembering it . . . 
the words " original sin " never come up in the movie of the same name , let alone the concept of it . 
the closest the film even gets to catholicism is in its narrative ( the story is told by angelina jolie to her priest while on death row in cuba , circa 1900 ) . 
regardless of its senseless title , original sin does actually have a plot ( albeit one of the most mangled acts of screenwriting since the art of war , based on the book waltz across darkness ) . 
boy ( antionio banderas ) places personal ad sometime around 1900 , searching for a wife . 
since this is a century ago , we narrowly dodge a remake of green card , only to find that the girl ( jolie ) faked her photo and is actually beautiful . 
skipping a few moderately useless sex scenes ( getting the question out of the way , yes , we get to see angelina jolie's breasts again ) , the girl turns out to be a con artist , swindles boy for his money , and heads for the hills . 
original sin then briefly tries to be a thriller . 
we see boy go whore-chasing , saying he wants to find girl and kill her . 
but as soon as boy actually finds girl , instead of following what might have been a promising ( or at least not completely fucking boring ) thriller , the film degenerates into the worst dissection of the virgin/whore complex since milk money . 
girl toys with the idea of reforming her con-girl past , all the while avoiding the " other man , " a lover that keeps making her start these scams in the first place . 
add insult to injury with some of the worst stylistic choices in cinematic history ( literally half of the film is either in slow motion or uses a strobe effect ) , and acting roughly the caliber of a b . b . gun , and original sin is one of the most torturous films of the summer , definitely front running to make my bottom ten of the year . 
don't even bother with original sin , but if you do go , be honest with yourself and admit its pure sex appeal . 
just keep in mind that although this film may not be the most original on the block , it's much worse than a sin . 
this is sacrilege . 

capsule : combine one quart of raiders of the lost ark , a dash of a jackie chan movie ( sans jackie ) , two teaspoons of gun- and swordplay , and a dollop of cgi . 
simmer for 100 minutes . 
yields : zilch . 
the phantom is a depressing and tired retread of so many earlier , better movies that after the fifteen-minute mark i started cataloguing them out loud . 
it's hard to make a good action-adventure movie that doesn't simply recycle its predecessors , and i've seen movies that even at least did the recycling gracefully . 
the phantom , allegedly based on the long-running comic of the same name , doesn't even bother to be graceful . 
it's a stupid and incompetent movie in too many ways to list , but i'll try . 
the film opens up with a " prelude " sequence that looks like it was slashed to ribbons in the editing and then given a heavy voice-over to compensate for whatever got thrown out . 
we go from there to a jungle sequence that , i swear to god , recycles the truck-chase scene from raiders of the lost ark note-for-note , possibly even shot-for-shot , right down to the moment where indy wrenched open the door and slung one of the drivers out into the brush -- and then goes on to rip off the rope-bridge scene from " sorcerer " as well ! 
sorcerer , as you may well remember , was a remake of a french movie , the wages of fear , in which a bunch of lowlifes were paid piles of money to drive a truck loaded with nitro through horrible jungle terrain . 
both versions of that movie were far more interesting than this flick , but i've got my job to do , so back to the salt mines we go . 
anyway , the cinematic theft doesn't stop there . 
or at least the lack of inspiration . 
there isn't a single thing here we haven't seen , and it's not given to us in a way that remotely evokes our interest . 
we have ( where's my list ? ) 
a bad girl , a tough good girl , a secret cave hideaway ( which seems inspired more by dr . 
no than anything else ) , a boardroom meeting that drips with greed and venality , magical artifacts of terrible power , and cary-hiroyuki tagawa wasted in another stupid role where he gets to wear a fu manchu mustache and sneer a lot and generally humiliate himself . 
what else is there ? 
the plot is a waste of time . 
the sets alternate between big but hokey -- and tiny and still hokey . 
there are lines in the script that are just begging to be mst3ked -- and i'm sure once mike and the 'bots get the cash , they'll stick it on their sked . 
the only thing in the movie worth noting is billy zane -- he's a good actor , and he tries very hard , even when the script is sending him down one dead alley of a scene after another . 
all i can say is that i pray this isn't the beginning of the end for him -- although it sure looks like the final nail in the coffin for the comic-book super-hero movie . 

i wish i could say that there is something more to the new star wars installment than what you see in the commercials , but there isn't . 
george lucas is an expert at crafting triumphant , special effects-bound flicks and he has done it again . 
this is the first star wars film i've seen on the big screen , so , of course , the impact was much greater than when i watched the three original episodes on video . 
what is compelling about the phantom menace is not its disposable story , but its amazing visuals . 
basically , the film's plot is centered around trade disputes between two planets . 
qui-gon ( liam neeson ) and his young apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) set out with the animated jar-jar binks to fix the mess that may result in war . 
when their ship breaks down and they are stranded , they find a young boy , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his slave mother . 
qui-gon strongly believes that anakin is destined for jedi greatness and immediately takes him under his wing . 
anakin participates in a heart-pounding podrace , one of the highlights of the film , to get the equipment needed to fix qui-gon's ship . 
however , most everyone is doubtful about entrusting the future to some unknown slave boy . 
meanwhile , queen amadala ( natalie portman ) is frustrated and at wit's end , being na ? ve and young and having so much responsibility on her shoulders . 
there are hardly any emotional scenes in the film- even when we discover that anakin will be leaving his slave mother behind to begin jedi training , the frenzied excitement of the whole film wears down the poignancy to the size of a crumb . 
this does not prove that the phantom menace is poorly made for it is brilliantly made . 
in all the star wars films , human emotions that we , the audience , can identify with are usually nil , but the films are for pure enjoyment , not for uplifting purposes . 
despite the fun of watching the movie , the phantom menace is not without flaws . 
for starters , we have the ill-conceived , moronic character jar-jar binks who should be considered a threat to star wars galactic society and to the audience . 
what a klutz ! 
george lucas clumsily tried to create a fun character that would be as memorable as , say , yoda , r2-d2 , or c3-po , but , alas , his efforts were in vain . 
secondly ( this may be good or bad , depending on your point of view ) , the movie's atmosphere is so different from the familiar comic-book feel of the previous three star wars installments . 
this is due , perhaps , to the utter complexity to this movie's plot and the higher level of sophistication of the visual effects used here . 
the movie seems to be reaching for epic proportions . 
i can't say much about the acting , though acting has never been what you saw star wars movies for anyway . 
however , there is absolutely no pizzazz to the performances- they are straightforward and , at times , stale . 
natalie portman has a great presence , but her turn as queen amadala makes the queen a stoic , unfeeling ? enigma . 
there is nothing we can hold onto in her performance to make us believe the trade predicament is anything of importance . 
jake lloyd is the only actor here who has an ounce of evident spunk . 
despite the inevitable faults , there is so much to enjoy about the movie . 
the heightened excitement of the final sequences doesn't quite surpass the famous the empire strikes back climactic scenes , but they are amazing and edge-of-your-seat fun in their own rite . 
the film is a treasure to look at . 
the visual effects are astonishing 99 . 8% of the time- the awe-inspiring , mouth-opening , eye-popping sight of the underwater city is nothing short of production design and special effects genius . 
not since 1997's the fifth element has there been a film as drenched in visual treats as this one . 
the production design is reminiscent of the fifth element , the previous star wars movies , kubrick's 2001 , maybe even of fritz lang's classic silent metropolis . 
however , all the sets are so original . 
the original star wars movies can't even match the grandeur of this film's visuals and that is a sheer pleasure for the viewer- it gives us hope of even greater things for the upcoming episode . 
the costumes are remarkable and have jean-paul gaultier written all over them . 
whether its queen amadala's gigantic wardrobe complete with gold-embroidery and feathers , or the jedis' simple brown uniforms , the costume designer has fused talent with outrageousness . 
the costumes are one of the true delights of watching the movie . 
as for john williams' score , i don't think he's done one as complex or powerful since ? i can't even remember . 
it is as epic as his schindler's list score and as thrilling and zestful as jaws . 
it includes the bare bones of his music from the previous three films , but williams has added on , made the music much more intense and moving . 
what with the overwhelming hoopla that circled this movie , one might come in with high expectations and be disappointed . 
there is very little to hate in the film : it's a very accomplished and skillfully made flick . 
it is the best " fun " film and the best big-budget film out today , most definitely . 

hong kong cinema has been going through a bad spell . 
the last few productions have been effect laded action adventures that combine both the best and worst of american filmmaking with the same qualities of hong kong films . 
in a nutshell , the current crop of films from hong kong has been maddeningly convoluted and visually sumptuous . 
with the one time british colony reverting back to mainland ownership , a lot of hong kong's best talents have crossed the pacific to work on u . s . productions . 
such talents as jackie chan ( rush hour ) , chow yun-fat ( anna & the king , the corrupter ) and yuen woo-ping ( the matrix ) have all moved into the budget bloated world of hollywood filmmaking with mixed results . 
now we can add two other hong kong filmmakers to the mix with star jet li and director and fight choreographer corey yuen kwai . 
unfortunately " romeo must die " bears all the trademarks of a typical hollywood action film and none of hong kong's rhythms . 
the film opens in a nightclub as an asian couple is necking . 
enter a group of chinese gangsters led by kai sing ( russell wong ) . 
kai confronts po sing ( jon kit lee ) , the son of kai's boss and leader of the local chinese family . 
a battle breaks out between the bodyguards of the club and kai , who handily kicks and punches his opponents down . 
it's not until club owner silk ( rapper dmx ) , bears down on kai and his henchmen that the fight ends . 
the following morning po sing is found dead . 
suspicions escalate , as issac o'day ( delroy lindo ) is told of the murder . 
his concern that the war between his and the chinese family may explode and ruin his plans to move out of the business of corruption and into a legitimate venture . 
issac implores his chief of security , mac ( issiah washington ) to watch after his son and daughter . 
the scene shifts to a prison in china , where han sing ( jet li ) learns of his brothers murder . 
he fights with the guards and is dragged off to be disciplined . 
hung upside down by one foot , han recovers and battle his way out of custody in a blistering display of fight choreography and stunt work . 
escaping to the u . s . han sets out to find the person responsible for his brother's death . 
 " romeo must die " is in many ways a fun film . 
it is both absurd and assured . 
the basic plot of a gangster wanting to become legitimate echoes " the godfather " . 
the relationship between jet li's han and aaliyah's trish o'day reminds us of abel ferrera's " china girl " , except that romeo must die's couple never once exchange more than a loving glance towards one another . 
their romance is much more puritanical than any other romance in film history . 
the performances are adequate if not fully acceptable . 
li , of course has the showiest part , having to express both an innocents and steadfast determination . 
allayah , in her feature film debut manages to carry what little is asked of her with a certain style and grace . 
it's obvious that the camera loves her and she is very photogenic . 
but , still the part is under written in such a way that even a poor performance would not have affected it . 
delro lindo as issac o'day carries himself well in the film . 
an unsung and under appreciated actor , mr . lindo turns out the films best performance . 
the other performers are all adequate in what the script asks of them except for d . b . woodside as issac's son , colin . 
the performance is undirected , with the character changing his tone and demeanor in accordance with whatever location he is in . 
an unfocused performance that should have been reigned in and / or better written . 
first time director andrzej bartkowiak does a workmanlike job in handling the film . 
having a career as one of the industry's best cinematographers , bartkiwiak knows how to set up his shots , and " romeo must die " does look good . 
but the pacing of the film is lethargic , only coming to a semblance of life during the fight scenes . 
the script by eric bernt and john jarrell is not focused in such a way that we can care about the characters or the situations they are in . 
the big gambit of buying up waterfront property to facilitate the building of a sports center for a nfl team is needlessly confusing . 
and of course the common practice of one character being the comic relief of the film becomes painfully obvious here as anthony anderson as allayah's bodyguard , maurice has no comic timing whatsoever . 
the best things about the film are its fight scenes . 
jet li is a master of these intricate physical battles . 
one needs only to see his film " fist of legend " to understand that the man is without peer in the realm of martial art combat . 
here , jet is given the opportunity to show off in a way that " lethal weapon 4 " ( jet's u . s . debut ) didn't allow . 
unfortunately , a lot of jet's fights are aided with computer effects that detract from his ability and precision . 
also " romeo must die " must be noted as having the most singularly useless effect ever committed to film , and that is an x-ray effect that appears three times during the course of the film , showing the effect of bone crushing blows on an opponent . 
obviously a homage to the famed x-ray scene from sonny chiba's " streetfighter " , the scenes here are just pointless and interfere with the pacing of the film . 
it's as if the film has stopped and a video game has been inserted . 
one problem though about the fight scenes . 
those that are familiar with hong kong action know that even though the films are fantasies and are as removed from reality as any anime or cartoon . 
they do have an internal rhythm to them . 
a heartbeat , so to speak in their choreography . 
the fight scenes in a hong kong film breath with an emotional resonance . 
this is created by the performance , the direction and the editing . 
here in " romeo must die " , there is no staccato . 
every fight scene , even though technically adroit and amazing becomes boring as the editing both cuts away from battle at hand and simple follows a set pattern . 
the rhythm is monotonous . 
a hong kong film has a tempo that changes , heightening its emotional impact . 
'rmd' is limited to a standard 4/4 tempo , not allowing for any emotional content whatsoever . 
a fine example of this difference can be found by examining a couple of jackie chan's films . . 
watch the restaurant fight from the film " rush hour " and notice that the context of the fight , while technically amazing is rather flat ( the framing and cut always do not help ) . 
now look at the warehouse fight from " rumble in the bronx " . 
there you have a heartbeat , and emotional draw that doesn't let the audience catch its breath . 
the stops and pauses for dramatic effect work perfectly , causing the viewer to be both astounded and flabbergasted . 
here in 'romeo must die' , the fight scenes have no more emotional content or character than any john wayne barroom brawl . 
jet li is a grand and personable screen presence . 
it's a shame that his full talents were not used to full effect here . 
one day filmmakers here in the u . s . will stop making films by the numbers and start to embrace the style and emotion that has made hong kong action pictures such a commodity . 
until then , we'll be left with emotionally hollow product like " the replacement killer " and , currently " romeo must die " . 

a couple of criminals ( mario van peebles and loretta devine ) move into a rich family's house in hopes of conning them out of their jewels . 
however , someone else steals the jewels before they are able to get to them . 
writer mario van peebles delivers a clever script with several unexpected plot twists , but director mario van peebles undermines his own high points with haphazard camera work , editing and pacing . 
it felt as though the film should have been wrapping up at the hour mark , but alas there was still 35 more minutes to go . 
daniel baldwin ( i can't believe i'm about to type this ) gives the best performance in the film , outshining the other talented members of the cast . 
[r] 

the general's daughter is a heartless , absurd film , a movie so hopelessly dedicated to its inane plot that it forgets entirely about its own characters . 
director simon west treats issues like rape and sexual fetish with ham-handed obscenity , creating a film that banks almost entirely on exploitation and offensive pseudo-depth . 
what's worse is that the movie is haphazardly glued together by two characters who are neither interesting nor sympathetic -- the ridiculous story requires them to do unbelievable things in the interest of reaching a dark conclusion in a sudden rain storm . 
john travolta finds himself in the middle of the mess , playing warrant officer paul brenner ; brenner is assigned to find the murderer and rape of captain elizabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) . 
brenner is teamed up with ex-spouse sarah sunderland ( madeline stowe ) , and they check out all the suspects on the base , including elizabeth's mentor , colonel moore ( james woods ) . 
soon , it becomes apparent that elizabeth was into kinky sexual stuff , but the question comes down to why -- and , of course , who . 
ebert's law of the economy of characters can be applied here ; one interesting thing i noted is that not only are all the characters suspects at some point ( including the two protagonists ) , but almost all of them end up directly intertwined with the story . 
perhaps i should have issued a spoiler alert before mentioning that , but it's painfully obvious from the beginning that everyone in the film is hiding something . 
on a story level , the general's daughter is ineptly constructed . 
the film , adapted by christopher bertolini and william goldman from nelson demille's novel ( which was apparently based on a true story ) , plods along to its conclusion , filling in the blanks with stale , unrealistic dialogue and " shocking " plot developments . 
having not read the novel , it's difficult to determine if these problems are the fault of the adapters or the original author , but i suppose they all are guilty to some degree . 
scene after scene stumbles with pointless insincerity ; minutes after finding the dead young woman , brenner and sunderland engage in sarcastic dialogue , which includes endless strings of forced lines . 
 ( sunderland actually asks brenner , " why was she killed ? " 
to which i would have answered , " if i knew , then the movie would already be over . " ) 
only after we've spent twenty minutes or so with these characters do we learn that they have a sordid history together ; this angle , though apparently present to develop their characters , is never explored . 
not that it really matters , since the characters consistently do ludicrous things for no other reason than to drive the plot . 
in one scene , sunderland is attacked by a man in a mask . 
she sees one of his rings , and she and brenner find the man later that day based on the ring . 
instead of questioning him like as they would a real suspect , they take him to brenner's houseboat , beat him up , and pour hot coffee in his lap . 
this scene really pushed me over the edge , not because it's gratuitous and mean-spirited , but because it illustrates the film's complete disregard for the characters and the audience . 
it was impossible for me to feel anything for these people beyond this scene , mostly because nothing they do comes as a surprise . 
i realized that these constructs on screen aren't actually characters , but devices present only to serve the story . 
this would have been bad enough without the west's need to hose his movie down in tasteless images of rape and sexual misconduct . 
compelling films about sexual crimes don't spend a lot of time on rape flashbacks , and they certainly don't show as much skin and sweat as a typical pornographic picture . 
these scenes are not the least bit powerful ; on the contrary , they're intended simply to provide the audience with the necessary resentment for the villain , whomever that may turn out to be . 
in addition , the movie treats sexual fetishes -- and sadomasochism in particular -- as if it's a perversion of everything we know to be pure . 
this standpoint is certainly allowed , but only in accompaniment with well-developed themes to back it up . 
as it is , the film forgets that a lot of people have sexual fetishes , and that putting on a pair of handcuffs does not make a person insane . 
perhaps the only positive elements in the general's daughter are a couple of the performances . 
james woods has a few terrific scenes , and plays his role with sharp , witty subtlety . 
i also liked james cromwell , mostly because he comes across as slightly sympathetic despite the obvious intent of west to make him villainous . 
nonetheless , these performances are undermined entirely by the dreary , obligatory atmosphere and the senseless neglect of characterization . 
the general's daughter is the worst kind of hollywood film -- it pretends to have a soul , to be of strict moral code , when in fact it has nothing more than a group of cardboard cut-outs force-feeding the audience a toxic landfill of plot contrivances and one-sided moral judgments . 

since 1990 , the dramatic picture has undergone a certain change of style . 
now , instead of emphasizing feel-good stories replete with characters of noble virtues , the screenplays and direction point toward human struggle and sorrow . 
this realist tendancy can be inspiring at times , as 1993's schindler's list shows . 
most of today's mainstream drama , however , creates an overabundance of emoting that can turn off members of the audience . 
that's why pictures like october sky , which are a throwback to the good ol' dramas of yesteryear , are such a welcome relief in contemporary cinema . 
the movie is based on the true story of homer hickam ( jake gyllenhaal ) , a teenager in the 1950's company town of coalwood , west virginia . 
it's a well-known fact that the only boys to make a name for themselves are the ones that get out of the town on football scholarships ; the rest grow up to work in the coal mine . 
the mine , which is run by homer's father ( chris cooper ) , is not the place for homer , however . 
after watching the soviet satellite sputnik shoot across the october sky in 1957 , homer feels a connection with the outside world -- as he puts it , " anyone in the world could look up and see the same thing i did . " 
drafting two of his best friends and the brainiac outcast , homer begins to construct rockets . 
with the help of their history teacher , miss riley ( laura dern ) , and several mine workers , the four are soon bound for great things . 
october sky is a skillfully crafted film , and most of that credit must go to director joe johnston . 
johnston -- whose career in the film industry includes everything from directing well-known titles like jumanji and the rocketeer down to an uncredited role as a death star trooper in star wars -- certainly knows what he's doing here . 
he molds characters which are true to life and also fun to watch into a plot that is straightforward and robust . 
he does not push any barriers , but instead adopts a conservative style of filmmaking which enhances the film's charm . 
his finesse brings out elements which might otherwise be lost -- such as the relationships between homer and various mine workers , or the silent struggle between homer's mother and father . 
the cast is well chosen , although the true bright spots are the supporting roles . 
laura dern ( jurassic park ) lends a strong performance in the role of the history teacher , giving the boys the support and guidance they need . 
her role is instantly likeable . 
chris cooper ( the horse whisperer ) , as homer's father , is less likeable -- even downright despicable at times -- but his turn here gives gravity to the movie . 
he's definitely a driving force in homer's life , and his more humane moments give the piece a certain dynamic that is commendable . 
the script is generally cheerful , projecting the boys' endeavors in a lighthearted manner . 
there are moments when it becomes predictable -- such as the train tracks scene -- and there are moments when it sacrifices orginality for the need to come up with an emotional plot twist . 
it highlights the essence of youth , however , and for its exceptional job at this it can be forgiven other missteps . 
october sky should be a success with audiences . 
although it doesn't have the appeal of current teen flicks like varsity blues or she's all that , it certainly holds an undeniable quality that older crowds will lean towards . 
it's a welcome change to the dramatic genre , and one that everyone should see . 

 " gordy " is not a movie , it is a 90-minute-long " sesame street " skit , and a very bad one at that . 
this movie is so stupid and dumb that it's depressing to think that some hollywood executives actually gave this the green light , and even more surprising is the fact that this is a disney movie . 
i'm sure children are the target audience of this movie , but only kids under the age of five may be able to tolerate it . 
it is the story of a farm a piglet named gordy ( voiced by garms ) , whose family has been taken away to " up north , " which we know means death . 
of course we can hear the animals talk to each other , and they actually went to the trouble of attempting to sync the voices with their mouths but it comes out terrible . 
actually , it's almost funny in a way . 
the only remotely interesting and likable character soon appears , a little girl named jinnie sue macallister ( young ) who sees gordy on the back of a truck and essentially steals him . 
jinnie is a country singer and the film goes off on a huge tangent to show her little concert and the people dancing to it . 
what is the point of this ? 
maybe she is one of the producer's relatives and they wanted to show her on camera to promote her or something . 
we then cut to a huge social gathering and drop in on another young kid named hank royce ( roescher ) who is sad because his divorced mother is dating . 
he leaves the party and meets jinnie sue , but he accidentally falls in a pool ( probably because he was sitting on the diving board with a $200 suit on - nah , didn't see that one coming ! ) , 
starts to drown , and is miraculously saved as gordy pushes an inflatable float over to him and saves him . 
if this had not been insanely stupid already the story quickly changes when jinnie gives gordy to hank who then ends up becoming the ceo of a food processing corporation when hank's grandfather , the original ceo , dies and leaves his fortune to hank . . . 
and gordy ! 
of course there must be a villain , but even this villain ( donadio as sipes ) isn't that evil . 
he never raises his voice or becomes angry , and of course he has the typical idiot goons kidnap gordy but this is just so beyond stupid and cartoony we are constantly two steps ahead of the story . 
it's hard to tell whether the overall corniness and cheesiness to the movie is intentional because it is a family film , or if the filmmaker's are just this untalented and stupid . 
at times " gordy " is tolerable to watch , thus earning it one star and not the dreaded " z- . " 
but it's just so unbelievably boring , cliche , dumb , unfunny , corny , and just plain bad it may scare children , it certainly disturbed me . 
 ( 4/21/96 ) ( 1/29/97 ) ( 6/13/97 ) [see also : " babe " ] 

imagine this scenario : you and any of your family members are scudding through one of those long , excruciating cross-country car trips , far from the city and into the deserted rural routes . 
so far , the trip is idyllic when , abruptly , your car malfunctions and you are stranded in the middle of nowhere . 
it is not an easy situation , but a perfectly plausible one , the panorama in which breakdown musters it's throbbing suspense and skillfully executed tautness . 
it is not easy to cobble a distinct and gripping thriller nowadays , but breakdown doesn't bungle into rudimentary plot holes or cliches and it derives a masterful , titillating climax that by it's finale , engrosses a viewer with total absorption . 
the plot is somewhat reminiscent of 1988's the vanishing . 
kurt russell and kathleen quinlan respectively play jeff and amy taylor , a massachusetts couple en route to california for a brand new job . 
when they stop for gas somewhere in the arid southwest , jeff is confronted by a pugnacious driver , who later , will be an important player in the plot department . 
minutes later after that , their brand new , strikingly red , jeep grand cherokee unexpectedly stops . 
jeff cannot detect the car's problem , so he allows amy to take a ride with red ( j . 
t walsh ) , a heedful truck driver who will convey her to the nearest town , where jeff will meet her at a local diner . 
it is facile for the film to turn into a pseudo-suspenser , but instead it opts for maximum fervor . 
jeff manages to re-start the car himself , but when he arrives at the diner , she is nowhere in sight . 
disconcerted , the coffee shop's bartender informs jeff where to search for his wife , a town about twenty miles from here . 
there , trouble arises . 
and i shall not reveal anything else , since that would be spoiling the fun of what's head . 
there are many involving , tight scenes in breakdown but the final climactic period which includes a magnificent chase with three cars and a huge truck , will have you feeling as if your legs are made out of pure foam . 
it is a pleasure to be part of a classic confrontation of good vs evil , and rooting for the good guys , in this case jeff . 
kurt russell is one of the few top-notch hollywood actors which doesn't overblow his acting , and gradually gains reliance on his role as it progresses . 
so you can assume his alteration in breakdown is letter-perfect . 
suffice it is to say he undergoes a transformation , from a jolly man , to a guy frantically pursuing a loved one . 
not many well-paid actors can deliver these type of performances , but russell is one of them . 
as an everyday man , he pulls it off extremely convincingly , what also surprised me more was his rigorous physicality , which he effectively practices almost all throughout the films 93 minutes . 
although the film is blotted with a couple of portentous action sequences ( very well done ) yet the tightness is generated by the subtle circumstances this man is presented with . 
faced with an enigma about his wife's whereabouts , the movie succeeds by conveying us in realistic territory with veritable characters , including the cryptic villains , who in essence , make the movie what it is . 
what's most impressive however , is the feature debut by writer/director jonathan mostow . 
mostow , hitherto directed the showtime thriller flight of a black angle , alleviates the contrivances and generics of the script by gingerly pursuing the trajectory of the plot , efficiently letting the tone and the mood of the story generate that nail-biting suspense sought for in a well- made affair . 
contrary to most american thrillers , he doesn't rely on visual flair , but on aesthetics and substance . 
after breakdown , he should gain vast notoriety . 
the villains in the movie aren't your routine out-of-this-world idiosyncratic psychos that are harming for no particular objective . 
the baddies in breakdown , all well acted , are normal , seemingly inoffensive townspeople who beneath their trustworthy layer , conduct an amoral business of corruption and murder . 
the movie smartly portrays these men as loathsome rednecks , and , of all things in the world , it is becoming rather easy to root for villains ( jon voight in anaconda ) in today's movies . 
worth a special mentioning is j . t walsh ( who previously worked with kurt russell in executive decision ) as the leader of the gang , he renders a deliciously wicked performance , temporarily stepping out of the minor roles he is known for . 
alfred hitchcock used suspense--and action-- not only to stimulate , but as a way of aiding his audience's fascination in his stories , which were slowly realizing man's biggest fears . 
breakdown yields exactly that . 
it magnificently taps into the psyche of an ordinary man , acting like an ordinary man , looking like an ordinary and some sort of superhero . 
despite one or two iffy moments even hitchcock , i think , would approve of breakdown . 
 ( 1 : 33 ) 

this feature is like a double header , two sets of clich ? s for the price of one . 
not only do we get the usual tired sports chestnuts , but the banal rich girl-poor boy love story is tossed in for good measure . 
an original moment in this loser is as rare as a chicago cubs world series appearance . 
the screenplay by kevin falls and john gatins , based on a story by falls , merely lobs its plotline at the audience . 
this is a story that needed sent down for seasoning and more coaching . 
summer catch centers around ryan dunne ( freddie prinze jr . ) , a cape cod youth chosen to participate in the prestigious cape cod baseball league , supposedly a showcase for the best young amateur and college players in the country . 
ryan is a blue-collar kind of guy . 
he works with his dad taking care of the lawns of cape cod's rich and famous . 
he also , as we are informed early , his own worst enemy . 
he has the potential and the talent , but always seems to self-destruct at the crucial moment . 
so , ryan tries to remained focused on baseball . 
then he meets tenley parrish ( jessica biel ) , daughter of one of the blue bloods whose lawn he manicures . 
tenley , a name only a hack screenwriter could invent , is unlike her snobbish counterparts and falls for ryan . 
if you can't figure out where all this nonsense leads , then you need a remedial course in film viewing . 
as always prinze is pretty to look at , but his performance mainly consists of facial expressions : puppy dog love , heartbreak , frustration , self-loathing or determination . 
biel cries a lot , while bruce davison merely acts smarmy as her class-conscious father . 
the only beacon is matthew lillard's fun-loving billy brubaker , the team's catcher . 
summer catch borrows situations and stylings from other baseball movies , such as bull durham and the natural . 
no curve balls here , no sliders . 
every pitch is predictable . 
a blind umpire could call this movie . 
summer catch is strictly rookie league moviemaking . 
it has as much chance of making the movie hall of fame as the dodgers have of moving back to brooklyn . 

by trying to satisfy every kind of viewer , it's possible that sphere may end up pleasing no one . 
action lovers will be bored by what they will see as an interminably boring setup . 
audience members who crave more intellectual fare will be disgusted by the film's sudden collapse into mindless storytelling and by the ending , which is an insulting cop-out . 
somewhere out there , maybe there's a small cadre of film-goers who will appreciate sphere's dubious charms , but i'm not among them . 
i sincerely hope the novel is better than the movie ( i no longer read anything by either michael crichton or john grisham ) , because if the finished motion picture product is anything to go by , it's hard to understand why the rights were optioned . 
sphere is the kind of first- class mess that only a top-line director with an a-list cast can create . 
with expectations high ( and how could they not be , considering that another barry levinson/dustin hoffman collaboration , the excellent wag the dog , is still playing in theaters ? ) , 
something this bad can't help but look even worse . 
the last time a big-name , big-budget film displayed this level of ineptitude was last year's batman & robin , and everyone knows how that movie was received . 
sphere starts out a little like an amalgamation of contact and james cameron's the abyss , but , somewhere along the way , it collapses into the cellar with another recent science fiction effort , event horizon . 
science and philosophy , which are used to good effect during sphere's first hour , give way to mindless , confusing action sequences . 
attempts at characterization fall apart . 
intelligent writing , which is evident early on , is replaced by hackneyed drivel . 
special effects take over as the plotline devolves into incoherent silliness . 
but all that is just in preparation for the ending , which is inexcusably awful . 
this is the time-honored deus ex machina device used to its worst effect . 
i left the theater feeling cheated by the way crichton and his screenwriters had chosen to end the film . 
there is some promise , but it's all in the setup . 
we're introduced to norman goodman ( dustin hoffman ) , a psychologist who once wrote a $35 , 000 report for the government about what to do in the event that a crashed space ship is discovered . 
when one is found in the middle of nowhere , 1000 feet below the surface of the pacific ocean , norman is called in to be part of the welcoming committee . 
on the team with him are beth halperin ( sharon stone ) , a biochemist who was once his student and lover ; harry adams ( samuel l . jackson ) , a mathematician who earned his first doctorate at the age of 18 ; ted fielding ( liev schreiber ) , an astrophysicist who is awed by the opportunity to explore alien technology ; and harold barnes ( peter coyote ) , the government operative in charge of the mission . 
together , the five descend into the bowels of the ocean , where they rendezvous with a temporary sea base on the ocean floor from which they will attempt to make first contact . 
for a while , sphere had me fooled into thinking it was going to take an astute approach to the man-meets-alien situation . 
the overall scenario is not without promise and several plot twists ( such as the revelation that the enormous craft is actually an american space ship , apparently from the future ) offer intriguing possibilities . 
then , right around the one-hour mark ( that's the time to sneak into the theater next door and check out whatever's left of titanic ) , the virtually non-stop action begins , and , once it starts , the script becomes superfluous . 
this might be acceptable if director levinson generated some legitimate tension , but , instead , he relies on loud , overbearing music , strange camera angles , and quick cuts to make things " exciting . " 
additionally , because none of the characters are well-formed ( a common failing in anything penned by crichton , who's more interested in technology than people ) , viewers don't develop much of a rooting interest . 
it makes sitting through sphere a frustrating and pointless experience . 
what about that a-list cast ? 
not surprisingly , the most energetic performance is given by samuel l . jackson , but his harry isn't a person ; he's a walking plot device spouting occasionally-witty dialogue . 
dustin hoffman isn't lively or particularly good -- it's ironic that this , which may be his worst work in a decade , has arrived in theaters on the heels of his best actor nomination ( for wag the dog ) . 
sharon stone and peter coyote are both flat . 
their characters exhibit little evidence of emotion ; automatons would have been as effective . 
then there's queen latifa , who , despite getting fifth billing in the credits ( ahead of liev schreiber , who boasts at least quadruple her screen time ) , has less than a handful of lines and almost nothing to do other than inflate the body count . 
i like to think that levinson and hoffman , recognizing how uninspired this movie was likely to be , chose to make wag the dog as a sort of penance ( the low-budget picture was filmed during sphere's lengthy pre-production phase ) . 
if that's the case , forgiveness is granted . 
i'm less inclined to look favorably upon crichton , although he has a few enjoyable titles on his resume ( jurassic park and the levinson-directed disclosure come to mind ) . 
even if his novel was butchered in the adaptation process , crichton's credit as a producer disallows him absolution . 
he was a willing participant in a creative travesty . 
no wonder sphere is being released in february , in the midst of the early year's cinematic wasteland . 
it deserves no better than to get sunk by the unstoppable titanic , which should plow sphere under on its way to a ninth-consecutive weekend atop the box office heap . 

the stereotypical american male has an undeniable fetishistic love of sports cars . 
producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon that attraction with a movie so loaded with testosterone and laced titillatingly with shot after frenetic shot of powerful muscle cars , sleek foreign road huggers and iconic speed machines that many males will leave the theater in an orgasmic haze . 
gone is 60 seconds is an orgy of maleness gone horribly awry . 
cage is legendary retired car thief , memphis raines ( don't you love cute movie names ) , who must call upon his time worn skills to save his thick-headed brother ( ribisi ) from being killed . 
seems a murderous crime boss ( eccleston ) with a fetish for wood ( insert your own joke ) hired brother kip to steal a ridiculous amount of expensive , exotic autos . 
fifty cars , to be exact . 
poor kip screws the pooch and bungles the job badly . 
if the cars aren't delivered in three days , bossman has a casket carved out just for kip . 
literally . 
if only someone could save him . 
hmmmm . . wonder 
what memphis is doing ? 
in order to give the film some emotional heft , there are several subplots designed to tug at our heartstrings or give us the thrill of . . . yawn , excuse me , dramatic tension . 
shadowing memphis is an old law enforcement foe ( lindo ) who's looking to send memphis away . 
will he catch him ? 
there's old flame sway ( jolie ) , who had her heart broken by memphis years ago . 
will they get back together ? 
shortsighted , thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother , yet resents him for moving away from the family . 
will they reconnect ? 
raines old mentor ( duvall ) has long since left the life of crime . 
will memphis get him finally caught as he pulls him back into the life , one more time ? 
can you answer all these questions correctly in 2 seconds without seeing the film first ? 
i'll bet you can . 
following the opening credits , which fill you in on the accomplishments of the raines family through a montage of old photos , we was taken full throttle into the splendor that is memphis . 
he's first shown living the good life teaching young children to drive go-carts . 
in a later scene , as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he has the stolen car situation under control , all the while making breakfast , a metaphor is made of shakespearean proportions . 
just as a pan of grease flares up with kip clueless to how to quell it , big brother memphis calmly and efficiently throws some salt on it . 
looks like everything might turn out alright after all . 
you know this because the music swells on the crest of violins . 
that's about as strong as the characterization gets , which is a shame . 
bruckheimer has a real talent for loading his movies with an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand . 
monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose idea of sex revolves around cars and memphis . 
or maybe it's just the cars . 
duvall trots out his ornery , but sweet old codger outfit . 
i'm sure he's still laughing at taking a paycheck for this one . 
lindo projects a warm hearted , but tightly focused detective that almost transcends the material . 
the biggest waste of resources is vinnie jones , who plays a mute accomplice of memphis . 
without saying a word , he is easily the most charismatic person in the movie . 
like a blast of nitrous oxide , he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal . 
too bad his minutes onscreen are so few . 
somehow , bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high concept , poorly written movies , gussies up the film with lots of gold hues and pleasingly stylized action and they sell like proverbial hotcakes . 
every time something clever happens it's counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks you back into realizing you're watching a movie . 
there's a innovative usage of black lighting that goes from being a novelty to a part of the plot . 
it's counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attempt at humor by having an asian american repeatedly failing a driver's test . 
imagine the yuks . 
there's a segment where one of the thieves shows another his cool fake fingerprint trick . 
it's countered by the lame semi-subplot of a car being stolen with a bunch of heroin in the trunk . 
the ramifications are never explored . 
then there's the ridiculousness of the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars . 
not only is it stupid , but it's against the law . 
this is a movie made of pretty , but tepid car chases strung together by just enough character interaction to move the plot along . 
gone in 60 seconds aptly describes how long it'll take for this marginally entertaining , but empty film to leave your memory . 

the rapid-fire formula that worked so well in airplane ! , the " police squad ! " 
television series , top secret ! , three naked gun films , and two hot shots ! 
movies has finally reached a desperate dead-end with spy hard . 
even ezio gregio's the silence of the hams is arguably funnier than this over-extended spy- and action-movie spoof . 
leslie nielsen stars as secret agent wd-40 , who returns from retirement to battle his old nemesis , general rancor ( a cackling andy griffith ) . 
the jokes fly in every direction and with hardly a hint of restraint , timing , or tact . 
most the movie is comprised of recycled airplane and naked gun gags , recreated movie sequences , and soggy star cameos . 
yeah , maybe we * do * need ray charles driving an l . a . bus bound for a speed bump , but did mr . t , hulk hogan , and dr . joyce brothers also have to appear in the same movie ? 
leslie nielsen plays it straight with his usual dopey flair . 
there is something oddly inspiring about the sight of nielsen wearing a nun's habit , even the resulting sister act spoof is silly . 
as are the bits directly lifted from home alone , pulp fiction , true lies , etc . etc . ( adolescent males might enjoy this mess , tho . 
the butt shots , breast peeks , penis pokes , flatulence gags , and related innuendo are right up beavis and butthead's alley . ) 
beyond the hilarious title sequence with " weird " al yankovich performing the theme song , spy hard is barely the stock that it's printed on . 
my recommendation : duck in while you're waiting for another movie to start . 
stay long enough to see the camera dart inside of weird al's nostril and then leave . 
you won't miss a thing . 

darren ( jason biggs ) , wayne ( steve zahn ) , and j . d . ( jack black ) have been best friends since the fifth grade . 
like the three musketeers , they've been together through thick and thin . 
but , when darren meets an attractive , but cold-blooded and manipulative , psychiatrist , judith ( amanda peet ) , the long time friendship is placed in danger . 
it's up to wayne and j . d . to rescue their best friend in " saving silverman . " 
 " silverman " has its heart in the right place , but the story , by newcomers hank nelken and greg depaul , is too lightweight to sustain the tale of the battle for darren's soul . 
based on their experience of a friend making a major marital mistake , the story is centered on the three , life long amigos . 
when wayne introduces darren to judith , he doesn't realize that he has opened a pandora's box of disaster for himself and j . d . judith was once in a relationship where her boyfriend was the dominant figure until he died in a kick boxing match . 
since then , she has sought a new mate - someone she can boss around and mold into her own vision . 
enter darren silverman . 
once they realize the magnitude of their error in judgement , wayne and j . d . try everything they can , including threats and bribery , to get judith to free darren . 
nothing works until the duo come up with a plan - kidnap judith and get darren back together with the girl he called his one and only , pretty sandy perkus ( amanda detmer ) . 
the only problem here is that sandy is about to take her vows to become a nun . 
things spiral out of control as judith repeatedly attempts to escape while wayne and j . d . play cupid . 
the boys even bring their idol , neil diamond , into the picture to help resolve things . 
thinking about it , this is a real mishmash of contrivance and coincidence that is held together solely by the comedic efforts of steve zahn and jack black . 
the pair is able to elicit the film's only laughs with their goofy antics and child-like behavior . 
they are relegated to providing slapstick guy humor and the two are more than equal to the task . 
steve zahn has been steadily honing his comedic acting skills and gives some complexity to wayne , the " brains " of the gang . 
jack black has the big-guy moves of a chris farley , giving j . d . an amusing physical presence . 
the neat thing is that the two actors are able to get fresh laughs from stale material . 
the rest of the cast doesn't fare as well , though . 
jason biggs is the straight man of the musketeers and gets very little to do ; though having watched his previous films ( " american pie " and " loser " ) i'm not sure what attraction biggs actually has . 
amanda peet is caustic as the manipulative judith . 
there is no humanity at all to her character as she single-mindedly strives to recreate darren into her mind's image . 
she's a monster that wayne and j . d . must defeat to save their friend . 
unfortunately , there is no dimension to her character . 
amanda detmer brings nothing ( or gets nothing ) as darren's one and only . 
r . lee ermey , as the psychotic coach , made a bad decision taking this role . 
tune-meister neil diamond gives a good-natured cameo perf as the boys' idol and savior . 
production values are on par with the rest of the film - lackluster and non-involving . 
director dennis dugan has a track record for broad comedy with films like " big daddy " and " beverly hills ninja , " but falls flat with " saving silverman . " 
the 2001 movie year has yet to provide us with a " good " film to sink our teeth into . 
at least , with " saving silverman , " we get a couple of funny perfs from zahn and black . 
too bad that the rest of the film lacks their level of humor . 
kick boxing deaths and conflicted nuns are not the makings of a good comedy . 
i give it a c- . 

54 is dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
a greater writer might have created a lyrical sentence for each of those adjectives , flowing in lovely arangements with soaring metaphors . 
i , however , would rather cut to the chase . 
54 is dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
there is nothing in it -- not a glimpse of depth , nor a shimmer of intelligence or insight . 
there is no electricity in any of the scenes , or a moment of interest in the story or its subplots . 
and it's underdeveloped , and features an array of bland characters played by actors who think they're in this year's boogie nights . 
they are so wrong . 
the picture has been assembled by mark christopher . 
based on this film , i don't know how he got a job in the business . 
54 is supposed to be an amazing insight into the world of the dance club of the same name , which originated in the 70s and closed down in the 80s . 
i don't know if this film went into production after boogie nights was released , but christopher has managed to plagiarize paul thomas anderson's brilliant work in every possible way , from the framework of the plot down to the style of the cinematography . 
what it lacks is everything that made boogie nights great : depth , intelligence , energy , fascinating characters , and challenging themes . 
54 can't even measure up to the last days of disco , which is flawed , but still smart and entertaining . 
it's remarkably bad timing , i'd say , to release a film this tedious after a couple of noteworthy pictures of the same kind . 
i have exaggerated , though : there is one interesting character , and one terrific performance . 
that character is steve rubell , played with more perceptiveness by mike myers than this limp production deserves . 
steve rubell is the owner of studio 54 , and if christopher had focused on him , then myers could have forced a good film out of this wreck all by himself . 
alas , we are instead guided to endure the trials of a young man named shane ( ryan phillippe ) , a going-nowhere new jersey teen who gets a job in the club , thanks to rubell's homosexual impulses . 
it's here that he meets his friends , the array of uninteresting characters : his co-worker , greg ( brecklin meyer ) , his wife , anita ( salma hayek ) , and , of course , the love interest , julie black ( neve campbell ) . 
shane is just an innocent young fool in the beginning , and he has a reasonably sturdy home life . 
 ( some of the scenes with his father border on interesting , while heather matarazzo , who plays his sister , pushes phillippe off the screen . ) 
but he decides to envelop himself in the disco scene , and succumb to peer pressure and to drugs . 
why his " friends " push him into drugs is never really explained , but the fact that they are " friends " is questioned only is superficial ways ( greg gets really mad at shane because he's been elevated to bartender status ) . 
there isn't a single conflict that takes center stage , except that shane has some kind of unexplored reservation with the business in which he works . 
most of the film is dumb , and most of the dialogue is inane . 
there's a scene late in the film in which shane confronts julie black , and , in the next scene , they're arm-in-arm without a bit of development . 
then , they're kissing in a bowling alley ! 
this is five minutes of material , thrown into the picture at the last minute ( well past the one-hour mark , and this isn't a long film to begin with ) . 
campbell is a talented actress , but she needs a role that gives her a little depth . 
this one doesn't . 
and phillippe has almost no presence whatsoever ; this performance pales in comparison to mark whalberg's star-making role in boogie nights . 
he seems dumb and misguided , and his voice never changes tone . 
i guess he was picked for the color of his hair and the shape of his body , but he seems pretty lanky to me . 
he's all wrong for a lead role , but it doesn't help that christopher has forgotten to develop his characters . 
by the end of 54 , shane's most notable trait is his stupid , fake accent . 
the rest of the performances are wasted . 
hayek is an energetic , talented young actress , and does almost nothing here . 
meyer is endearing , but allowed to be no deeper than cardboard . 
only myers , by sheer force of talent , manages to rise above christopher's wading-pool of a script . 
rubell has been written just as depthless as the rest of the characters , but myers is good enough to inject subtleties that help round out the performance . 
in fact , myers is the sole reason to see 54 , and all it really does is make you wish that the film had revolved around him . 
i've read that studio 54 has been recreated down to the last detail . 
frankly , i don't care . 
it's easy to recreate something technical like this . 
a fairly skilled production designer and a few carpenters can manage such a task . 
besides , christopher keeps the lights so low that the sets are invisible , anyway . 
aside from myers' performance , 54 is a complete failure . 
it's dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
some may find my comparisons to boogie nights unfair , but they're so obvious to me . 
in any event , 54 is pallid without the contrast . 
it doesn't even work as mindless entertainment : it's so shallow that the most escapist viewers are likely to dismiss it . 
so , don't forget those key words : dull , perfunctory , uninspired , and boring . 
everything else i said was just padding . 

ladies and gentlemen , payback is the most expensive episode of " the equalizer " i've ever seen . 
gibson plays porter , a burglar shot and left for dead by his wife ( deborah kara unger , in an all-too-brief cameo ) and partner ( henry ) after a successful heist . 
as a morgue attendant sets about removing the bullets from porter's back , porter miraculously springs back to life . 
he makes it his mission , as a walking dead man without a conscience , to exact revenge on those who screwed him and reclaim his share of the loot . 
 ( in a running gag , porter demands $70 000 , but everybody mishears him and assumes he's after the entire $130 000 haul . ) 
in his travels ( or travails ) , porter encounters several other one-named villainous cretins like fairfax ( james coburn as a white-haired , millionaire thief ) and carter ( kristofferson , as a brown-haired , millionaire thief-the kingpin of the obligatory " operation " ) . 
helgeland's film ( which was recut by mel the producer ) is devoid of an imperative dime store charm . 
the novelty of seeing a big movie star mercilessly dispatching criminals wears off quickly : a ) because the bad guys can only be differentiated by their coifs , and b ) because mel's schtick doesn't evolve from act one-he's the terminator stranded in a plot without a sci-fi hook to keep us interested after the initial sadistic thrill is gone . 
payback should have been called playback : it's a 102-minute loop of the same short sequence . 
 ( mel : " i want my money . " 
anonymous villain : " no . " 
mel shoots gun . 
anonymous villain dies . 
mel meets up with his hooker friend ( bello ) . 
second verse , same as the first . ) 
it's not porter's single-mindedness that robs the film of snap , crackle , and pop ; as a character who has already " died " once , he has nothing to lose and so much to gain . 
the movie lacks danger . 
the only thing porter is in jeopardy of is putting the audience to sleep . 
payback has a gritty , metallic look to it that also becomes monotonous ; its cinematography would be more appropriate in one of those bleak urban psychodramas that come out of england every couple of months . 
 ( director of photography ericson core should have been fired early on for lighting bello , so va-va-va-voom in permanant midnight , to look like a potato in a gregg allman wig . ) 
to analyze such mediocrity is to grant payback far more attention than it deserves . 
perhaps only someone as experienced with antagonists-as-protagonists as tarantino-look what he did with the similar hero-less botched-robbery tale reservoir dogs-could have pulled off this material ( a loose remake of john boorman's point blank ) . 
the movie presents us with the conventions of pulp fiction ( all women are femme fatales ; even the cops are in on it , etc . ) and crosses them with the conventions of cheesy tv crime melodramas ( death is never in the cards for the main character , etc . ) but transcends neither . 

note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
it's rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor's first feature film , dream with the fishes , when the plodding , tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup . 
any hopeful expectations , however , are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched-buddy movie which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film's latter half . 
the film's central characters are terry ( david arquette ) , a depressed , lonely voyeur who claims to be despondent since the death of his wife in an automobile accident , and nick ( brad hunt ) , a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill . 
nick lives in the apartment building across from terry , who spies on the trysts between nick and girlfriend liz ( kathryn erbe ) with his trusty set of binoculars , but the two young men first formally meet at the bay bridge where a half-drunk terry precariously teeters upon the edge , unconvincingly vowing suicide . 
nick casually asks for terry's wristwatch , and eventually cons terry into a trade - the watch for a bottle of pills . 
of course , terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects , and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch . 
learning of nick's condition ( he only has a handful of weeks left ) , terry's compassion kicks in , and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement - terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick's lifelong fantasies , and nick will fulfill terry's death wish by killing him . 
this is a promising premise , and mr . taylor's film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point , but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters ( terry is a repessed , mournful character who wants to die , while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying but wants to live ) and takes the easy route out by turning dream with the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage in a series of generally dull exploits , and where the straight-laced character learns to enjoy and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character . 
this is by-the-numbers plotting , buddy movie/road movie redux . 
however , dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline , but by the characters which carry the story - it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic , if not likeable . 
unfortunately , that is not the case here , where both of the film's leading characters are thorougly uninteresting and annoying , giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights , and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits . 
far from a romp , this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt , and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the two men begin to bond . 
mr . taylor's dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes - while attempting to capture a quirky and clever tone , it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived ( witness such lines as " you should have asked something more interesting , like 'do you enjoy the pain ? ' 
- see , that's provocative , leaves room for further questions . " ) 
the film enjoys a few inspired moments - the urn scene , a session of nude bowling , the policeman joining in on terry and nick's acid trip - but unfortunatetely these instances are few and far between , and for the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes . 
this occurs particularly often during the film's opening sequence - as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital , i'm realising that this is * intended * to be funny , although nary a smile crept upon my lips - which is probably due to the obvious fact that it's painfully clear to the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts , sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick's scheme of tricking him ; this is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes . 
the entire sequence is , then , clearly an exercise for character exposition , with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability . 
among the cast , coming off best is david arquette , the current master in the portrayal of meek , squirming , stammering fresh-faced characters - he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang's swimming with sharks - who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry . 
mr . taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique , where the portions of the film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy and heavily saturated , as opposed to a bright , crisp look for the smalltown scenes . 
the charge of dream with the fishes's protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me ; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters , and indeed , in many cases have i been in the minority , supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult , audience-unfriendly nature of their characters . 
for dream with the fishes , though , i did find myself on the flip side of coin , often hoping that the film would quickly conclude , and that the nick character would just hurry up and die . 

in wonder boys michael douglas plays an aged writer \ professor with such lived-in naturalism that i believe it may be his best performance . 
ever since wall street , douglas has spent the greater part of his career playing variations on the shark in a suit gordon gecko character he personified in the mid-80's . 
in those performances he tended to exaggerate the vehemence of cutthroat businessmen , with much frothing at the mouth while projecting all his bad intentions to the world . 
you'd think such a man would keep his evil wrapped tightly underneath a good-natured veneer , but from gordon gecko to nicholas van orton , douglas played the role straight and out in the open . 
in wonder boys his performance isn't showy or a tour de force , it's simple yet truthful . 
he embodies grady , a craggy old writer with a predilection for pot and pink bathrobes . 
grady instructs a writers workshop while working tirelessly on a follow up to the novel that put him on the map . 
when we first encounter this curmudgeon in the midst of his workshop , we hear his sardonic narration on the soundtrack as students bombard one of their own with unfair criticisms . 
grady points out , in his narration , that they only do so out of jealousy . 
their target is the very writerly named james leer ( played by the always understated tobey maguire ) , a student full of potential and one whom grady develops a mild affection for . 
leer is the kind of youth who seems to mechanically block out emotions . 
he speaks in an intellectualized monotone with just a hint of dry wit around the edges . 
he's portentous and gloomy , as if modeling himself after the great depressed writers , though his act is a little too calculated . 
he reminds me of the self-imposed outcast film director , jim jarmusch ( dead man , ghost dog ) . 
whenever i happen to catch jarmusch in an interview i see the man speaking in a toneless manner ( the monotonous drawl supposedly masking depth or contempt for his interviewer ) , exclusively dressed in black , and with his spiked hair dyed snow white . 
leer is similar , a guy who equates quirks with depth . 
tobey maguire fits well in the role . 
with his round , sweet-eerie face he resembles bud cort from harold and maude . 
but unlike cort , maguire is easier to warm up to ; he's a messed up kid reaching for artistic credibility . 
katie holmes plays hannah , a beautiful , talented writing student just itching to get in grady's pants . 
this is a plot line i had trouble with . 
douglas , in his old age , is beginning to resemble jerry springer , a man who has actually paid for sex on numerous documented occasions . 
at first i found it extremely difficult to believe that someone as beautiful as hannah would desire grady ( maybe it's because i'm jealous , and wish holmes was throwing herself at me , after all i may just be a lowly internet critic but at least i still have all my teeth ) , then i think of douglas's real life companion , the breathtaking catherine zeta jones . 
seeing those two together looks a lot like a kidnapping . 
suddenly my mind has shifted from the task at hand ( that being reviewing this completely wonderful movie ) and i'm pontificating on why the hell jones would desire douglas . 
there is a movie in there somewhere . 
grady , rather chivalrously if you ask me , resists the charms of hannah for sara gaskell ( a droll frances mcdormand ) , who is his age , but also married to another professor . 
okay , maybe not so chivalrous . 
there is a great line in the film spoken by douglas about sara where he says , " she was a junkie for the printed word . 
lucky for me i manufactured her drug of choice " . 
robert downy j . r plays a bisexual editor who makes his entrance with a towering transvestite on his arm . 
downy has mastered the gleefully dry hyper articulate wit of many a hipster intellectual . 
he's arrogant but completely likeable in his utter arrogance . 
the actor is perfectly cast here , and remains a joyous movie presence somewhere between a typical tom hanksian comic leading man and edgy character actor . 
i wish wonder boys had more of him . 
searching for a plot among the elements of wonder boys would be pointless , for it meanders through its running time , but that's part of its charm . 
and maybe i'm a bit biased towards the film because it takes place in a haven of literary academia , a place i'm greatly fond of , and a place rarely explored in american cinema . 
everyone has a sub-genre ( be it war films , westerns , dance movies ) that they happen to be privy to . 
i'm privy to films about literary types i . e . 
those individuals enthralled by the written word , and if you are not so inclined it may be wise to knock my above grade down about half a notch . 
the direction by curtis hanson is more akin to a european film with its leisurely pace and situations that grow from the characters , rather than generic mapped out story points . 
sometimes the dialogue is too clever , but that's a problem i wish i found with films more often . 
another minor quibble is that early on the film seems a bit too introverted , like its characters , but as the story progresses it begins to open up . 
for me wonder boys works as subtle drama because of its insight into artistic types , and as a low-key comedy for its chuckle-worthy throwaway gags . 
the gags are like those in the great robert altman ( m * a * s * h , the long goodbye ) movies , where jokes exist as asides on the fringes , like jokes in life often do . 
the broader comedy such as the killing of a blind dog , and incessant smoking of marijuana isn't ineffective but not nearly as memorable as the little things . 
curtis hanson , who before his last film , la confidential , toiled about with exploitation fare like losin' it ( an early tom cruise sex comedy ) and the hand the rocks the cradle , has graduated to more meaningful films . 
he directs wonder boys in an appropriately dour style , the comedy coming from the false gloom his characters put up . 
the morose crooning of leonard cohen would seem an odd song for the background of any party , but in a wonder boys party , it fits . 
the film is like a piece of literature put up on the big screen . 
it's the cinematic equivalent to a good read , novelistic in its approach with themes rarely found in american movies . 
many will find it slight , but i found much to savor among its subtleties . 

the calendar year has not even reached its midway point , but that hasn't prevented columbia pictures from trotting out a lavish period drama more befitting of the winter oscar-bait season . 
bille august's high-profile adaptation of victor hugo's classic les miserables delivers everything one would expect from a classy hollywood epic--handsome production values , strong performances by a top-notch cast , a literate screenplay--with one critically missing element : emotional sweep . 
for those not familiar with hugo's original novel or the hit stage musical it inspired , the hook of les miserables essentially boils down to something like a 19th-century french-set version of the fugitive . 
after serving 19 years in a prison work camp for stealing a loaf of bread , the brutish jean valjean ( liam neeson ) is paroled . 
immediately upon release , he steals valuable silverware from a kindly bishop who takes him in for a night ; he is caught by authorities , only to be forgiven by the bishop , who lets valjean keep the silver to start a new life on the straight and narrow . 
that he does , and in doing so breaks his parole , which sets the obsessively determined inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) , who was one of the guards in valjean's prison camp , on his trail . 
thematically , however , les miserables is a story about redemption , which valjean finds through his dealings with two women , the hard-luck factory-worker-turned-prostitute fantine ( uma thurman ) , and her illegitimate daughter , cosette . 
years after breaking parole , valjean becomes mayor of the town of vigau , where he forms a warm friendship with fantine after saving her from an unjust arrest by javert . 
valjean promises the gravely ill fantine he will rescue the young cosette ( mimi newman ) from her cruel caretakers , the thenardiers , and raise the child as his own . 
the " father " and " daughter " eventually land in paris , where the teenage cosette ( claire danes ) falls for dashing student revolutionary marius ( hans matheson ) . 
the decades-spanning story is the stuff that cinematic epics are made of , and the danish august turns in his most accomplished english-language work , following the underrated 1994 superstar soap the house of the spirits and last year's stylish but highly preposterous mystery smilla's sense of snow . 
he and screenwriter rafael yglesias bring the sprawling tale into clear focus and keep the events moving at a brisk pace . 
production designer anna asp , costume designer gabriella pescucci , and cinematographer jorgen persson give les miserables a sumptuous period look whose accomplishment is mostly matched by the efforts of the cast . 
neeson is commanding yet endearingly vulnerable ; rush's finely modulated menace is far more rewarding than his overrated , oscar-winning theatrics in shine ; and thurman disappears nicely into her highly unglamorous role . 
the younger members of the cast fare less well . 
danes is convincing as cosette , but her overdone lip quivering during her crying scenes becomes a distraction ; and matheson , while competent , is a less interesting robert sean leonard . 
as technically adept and cerebrally engaging the film is , by the time les miserables was over , my emotions had only been superficially involved . 
while i was touched by valjean's relationships with fantine and cosette , i was not moved . 
not even reaching the " touching " level is the cosette-marius pairing . 
my only previous experience with les miserables is with the musical ( as i am sure many others' is ) , and i was dismayed to see eponine , a friend of marius's who selflessly dies in the name of her unspoken love for him , almost completely jettisoned from this adaptation ( the daughter of the thenardiers , here she is only briefly seen as a child ) . 
her presence would have added some much-needed conflict and emotional heft to the youthful romance , but i suppose august and yglesias felt one tragic heroine ( fantine ) was enough . 
even so , as 1998 creeps into summer blockbuster season , les miserables is a thoughtful , well-made , entertaining film , one that will sate moviegoers hungry for a dose of drama before popcorn no-brainers invade the multiplex . 

many people will not find much to like in what dreams may come , the new film by visionary director vincent ward . 
most will come to see the computer animated landscapes and vibrant colors . 
but little do they know ( as i so plainly found out ) that this has quite a complex story to tell . 
walking out of the theater , i could see the audience's disgust . . . 
one member even had to be awakened after the film ended . 
don't believe the previews that you see . . . 
this is definitely not a film for everyone . 
this is quite possibly one of the most adult-oriented films to come out in recent years . 
kids will get bored with the slow plotting and the complex storyline . 
the plot is just as fluid as the heaven that ward presents to us . 
it goes back and forth in time , as if it has no boundaries . 
think of the film city of angels . 
now add a more complex screenplay and a more unique vision . 
both films deal with the afterlife , but i doubt what dreams may come will do well at the box office . 
costing around $85 million to make , the film would have to do extremely well in order to make it's money back . 
but due to it's story , i doubt it will . 
for everyone who thought titanic's story was too simple and cliche , here is proof that if james cameron had written a more complex screenplay , it may not have done nearly as well . 
but don't get me wrong . . . 
i hope the film does do well . 
it's a vision of pure visceral enjoyment that hardly ever gets put to the screen . 
i doubt most of us could have thought of this place , even in our own mind . 
what dreams may come is the second best film of the year when it comes to visuals . 
the only film that surpasses it is dark city . 
full of rich , shocking colors , we get to see a heaven that most of us would probably die to get to . 
but don't do that , because you'll end up going to hell . 
what dreams may come begins with two boats colliding on a lake . 
chris " christy " nielsen ( robin williams ) is startled by the sudden jolt , but is even more startled by the beauty of the woman in the other boat . 
annie ( annabella sciorra ) spies chris , as well , and both eventually bond and get married . 
annie is an artist , whose paintings are colorful , lush , and surrealistic . 
chris is a doctor and loves annie more than life itself . 
they also have two children , marie ( jessica brooks ) and ian ( josh paddock ) . 
but one day , the two children are killed in a car crash , and it almost destroys annie . 
she tries to commit suicide , but fails , and is then put in an institution . 
chris copes with the problem by realizing they aren't around anymore , and nothing will change that . 
just as annie gets her life back in order , chris is killed while trying to save the life of a car crash victim . 
chris goes to heaven , or his version of heaven , rather . 
guided by albert ( cuba gooding , jr . ) , chris explores his new surroundings with pure delight and joy . 
that is , until he realizes how miserable he is without annie . 
prior to heaven , he would try to comfort annie , but the more he was around , the more pain she felt . 
chris decides to leave her alone . 
little does he realize what will happen next . 
i'm not about to say , because the plot point is crucial to the rest of the story ( many critics , however , give it away ) . 
certainly , chris dying is crucial to the plot , but they tell you that he dies in the previews . 
story is not necessarily important for this movie to work , because it deals with the afterlife . 
however , strangely , virtually nothing is heard of god or the devil . 
a couple of comments here and there , but the story maintains its focus on chris and his search for the love of his life . 
 " we're soul mates ! " 
chris exclaims . 
heaven , in movies , is almost always depicted as a glowing city of white , purity , and love . 
usually , it also looks like it rests among the clouds . 
but what dreams may come goes a different route . 
it shows us a heaven that most of us have never seen before . 
chris' heaven is his memories brought to life . 
his thoughts can make anything real , and he makes the paintings annie drew become his heaven . 
 " i've never seen anyone use real paint before , " albert says . 
equally good as the depictions of hell which cast away the normal stereotypes of fire and brimstone . 
instead , it's a state of being . 
in one gloriously horrific scene , chris and his " tracker " ( max von sydow ) arrive at a sea of faces . 
thousands of heads are stuck above ground , their bodies somewhere else . 
mostly dead silent , some quips are made , almost as if to lighten the mood . 
it's truly a frightening sequence . 
production designer eugenio zanetti is definitely going to be up for an oscar nomination . 
using state of the art computer technology , worlds are created for exploration . 
sometimes , some scenes play out as if they are only there for the visual impact . 
it's not necessary to be there , but we appreciate seeing it . 
costume designer yvonne blake ( who also appears in the film ) has done an incredible job providing some interesting and colorful costumes . 
cinematographer eduardo serra , whose work was last seen in the luscious wings of the dove , has a difficult job , as most cinematographers do working with special effects . 
but serra's entire universe is a computer generated image , and he does a masterful job . 
writer ron bass , adapting from the novel by richard matheson , provides a very fluid screenplay with no real set plot . 
the story is extremely vague in its details , allowing viewers to think for themselves about the meaning . 
and director vincent ward puts it all together into his final vision . 
what dreams may come is a good example of german expressionism which may just turn off a good portion of the audience . 
your average movie goer more than likely isn't used to expressionistic techniques . 
the film will also definitely draw attention from religious people , but they shouldn't take it too far . 
it is , after all , just a movie . 
robin williams has continuously impressed with his dramatic performances , while his comedic roles have been suffering . 
his comedy is perfection when he makes up his own stuff , but when is confined by a screenplay , he isn't quite as effective . 
but drama is really his strong point , and you can see that here . 
it's doubtful he'll get another oscar nomination , but i wouldn't really mind if he did . 
the real surprise here is annabella sciorra who impressed last year with cop land . 
this may be her breakout role and may garner her some much needed attention . 
it's also quite possible that she could get an oscar nomination . 
however , the academy doesn't like to award performances for these types of films . 
cuba gooding , jr . has been better , but he's certainly not distracting . 
max von sydow is underused , as are jessica brooks and josh paddock . 
a treat for some movie goers is to see werner herzog appear ( if they even recognize him ) as chris' father lost in the sea of faces . 
it's not hard to see why herzog would be attracted to this film , considering he thinks that audiences are starving for great images . 
overall , it's williams and sciorra's film . 
what dreams may come is rated pg-13 for thematic elements involving death , some disturbing images , language , and some partial nudity . 
the film is definitely aimed at a more adult audience . 
some will find the plot distracting . 
some will find the visuals absolutely glorious . 
and some will find both . 
the only real problem with the film , that i could see , was that it slows down considerably during the midsection , just after we have been immersed in the visuals and before the search for annie begins . 
by the way , some controversy even surrounded the title , which was mistaken for a sexual term ( " what " becomes " wet " and you should understand ) . 
in actuality , the title is from a soliloquy in hamlet . 
just thought i should let you know . 

in october of 1962 the united states found itself on the brink of nuclear holocaust when u2 spy plane fly-overs of cuba revealed that the soviet union was actively deploying and installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles from the us . 
president john kennedy ( bruce greenwood ) and his staff must face this major threat to world peace and stop soviet expansionism in director roger donaldson's dramatic recreation of the most dangerous crisis in american history in " thirteen days . " 
one of the highlights to come out of made-for-tv movies was a 1974 entry called " missiles of october " that also recreated the historic event that almost embroiled the us , ussr and the world in an all out nuclear showdown . 
that teleplay , starring william devane and martin sheen as john and bobby , showed the political tensions of the period that brought to the fore the danger the world faced in those two weeks in 1962 . 
now , a quarter of a century after the landmark tv movie , director roger donaldson and producer kevin costner team together again ( the last time was for the taught spy thriller " no way out " ) to re-enact the events of that most dangerous time in america's and the world's history . 
taken from the viewpoint of special assistant to the president kenneth p . o'donnell ( costner ) , donaldson and crew recreate that volatile event , once again , as the country is plunged into what could have been total nuclear war . 
as o'donnell gets ready to head to work one october morning , he deals with the usual family crises and problems . 
meanwhile , a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced some startling images - medium range nuclear missiles in the first stage of deployment . 
suddenly , ken's routine day switches into crisis mode as the president and his key advisor bobby begin to muster the considerable forces of the us military to face the soviet threat . 
where " thirteen days " differs most from " missiles of october " is , as expected , in the scope of the project . 
there is a big difference , budget-wise , between making a television docudrama and one that goes to the big screen . 
it shows as the makers of " thirteen days " craft a recreation of the cuban missile crisis that encompasses not only the political intrigue within the white house , it also depicts the events that took place as america girds itself for nuclear confrontation . 
the cast , a true ensemble , is led , surprisingly , by bruce greenwood as jfk and not by kevin costner . 
costner's o'donnell represents the family guy thing as the drama of the crisis has its impact on him and his family . 
this puts a personal spin on the film as we see both the crisis and america's preparation for war and the pressure it brings to bear on those in the know . 
kenny reassures his wife and kids that all will be okay and they will be safe , but he knows that , if the crisis comes to a head , his family will be no more . 
the meat of " thirteen days " is in the big picture , not the microcosm of family , though . 
this is where the film stands out as we see the workings of our government on the highest levels . 
the story does not just cover the face-off between the world's two most powerful countries ; it also depicts the animosity between the president and the military/cia . 
the disaster of the bay of pigs invasion the year before left a distrustful taste in the mouths of the generals and admirals who blame the kennedys for not backing the cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro . 
the missile crisis becomes a struggle for power as the army/navy/air force want to flex their might and invade cuba , while jfk wants to end the confrontation peaceably but with america's dignity and world leadership intact . 
while the internal battle for power rages in the white house , with air force chief curtis lemay ( kevin conway ) advising the president to bomb cuba into the stone age , our armed forces are set into motion to stop the soviets with a blockade of offensive weapons to cuba . 
this is where the political intrigues of high office are replaced by exciting action . 
when the first confrontation takes place between a us warship and a soviet freighter , the tension is palpable . 
the most involving action sequence takes place late in the game as another u2 is sent up to shoot some snaps of the buildup and the fully prepared soviet forces launch an anti-aircraft attack on the hapless pilot of the spy plane . 
this is a sweaty palm sequence to say the least , making you squirm in your seat as you try to help the pilot avoid those missiles . 
the ensemble cast places greenwood as the first among equals with like weight given to all the principle players . 
greenwood does not play act at being a caricature of jfk , foregoing the typical kennedy boston accent . 
instead , he plays the man as a powerful figure who has to maintain the dignity of the office , directing his subordinates but giving them the latitude to make clear all of his options . 
kennedy used this decision by committee method to good effect as his senior staff uncovers all the options available to the president . 
costner , as ken o'donnell , is really a supporting cast member as a kennedy crony brought on board as a personal political favor . 
costner plays o'donnell as if he crammed on old jfk speeches with a forced kennedyesque twang to his speech . 
the rest of the players are first rate from start to finish with steven culp looking and sounding just like robert kennedy . 
the rest of the familiar players in this drama are uniformly well cast , too . 
standing out are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to the un , adlai stevenson , who was forced to become the challenging voice of the united states in the united nations and i remember the confrontation vividly . 
the filmmakers capture the accusations laid down by stevenson with accuracy , using old style video footage to good effect . 
dylan baker has the look and feel of the intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara . 
kevin conway gives his general lemay the right " bomb them to hell " attitude . 
also notable is christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who , with his wingman , takes on the dangerous mission of a low-level photo recon into the heart of cuba , bravely challenging kenny o'donnell's admonition , " don' get shot . " 
tech credits are superb across the board with an admirable depiction of the us armed forces being placed on a war footing . 
it's an impressive production with the careful use of period aircraft and ships that gives the film a veracity fitting the event . 
solid costuming by isis mussenden is subtle but has the look of the kennedys . 
there is the usual array of vintage cars from the period to make things look right . 
the special f/x of the u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging . 
the cuban missile crisis is probably the most intense two weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader . 
helmer donaldson and his fine crew and cast have given the depiction of this crucial event with the care and attention to details that make this one of the finest docudramas of the year . 
i give " thirteen days " an a- . 

in this good natured , pleasent and easy going comedy , bill murray ( ghostbusters , 1984 ) plays grumpy weatherman phil conners , who , every year , is sent to punxsutawney , p . a , to report on groundhog day . 
the groundhog day ceremony involves a groundhog being lifted out of a box , and if he dosen't see a shadow , it will be an early spring . 
phil really hates the ceremony , and not even his producer rita ( macdowell ) can change his mind . 
however , fate has a cruel trick for phil , and he starts re-living groundhog day over , and over , and over , until he gradually likes it , and rita falls in love with him . 
groundhog day is a well written , totatly unoffensive and funny comedy . 
the screenwriters , director ramis and danny rubin , have written a funny , warm , but never overly senitmental comedy . 
although the idea of a day repeating over and over may sound tedious , there are enough good jokes to hold the audiences attention throughout the whole film . 
ramis's direction also helps , and although he dosen't try any flash director tricks , the film is directed well enough , and the jokes are set up well . 
and the editing is also good , especially when it shows one part of the day over , and over again , such as when phil tries to have the perfect night with rita . 
the performances are also excellent . 
bill murray is great fun , and his transistion from cynical to happy is smooth , and delivers his lines in his usual smary style . 
andie macdowell is good as rita , although sometimes she is just a little bit too sweet in some parts of the film . 
there is chemistry between the two leads , thankfully , otherwise the whole film would probably fall part . 
chris elliot , as the cameraman larry , is also funny , although you have to like his goofy style , otherwise you are really going to hate him throughout this film , and it will lower your enjoyment of the film overall . 
the supporting cast aren't bad either , with stephen tobolowsky hillarous as phils old school mate ned ryanson , and even director ramis popping up as a neurologist . 
in fact , there is not one dud performance in this film , and even the groundhog gets a funny scene involving a car chase . 
overall , there is really nothing wrong with groundhog day at all . 
it almost seems perfect . 
however , the film can get a bit soppy sometimes , and some people may get irritated by the day repeating over , and over , and over , and over . 
also , there's not much of an music score , and the music there is is pretty bad . 
but these criticisms hardly affect the audiences enjoyment at all . 
overall , then , groundhog day is a funny , smart , and also has some room in there for some heart . 
an excellent comedy . 
overall rating= ( 

so , it's thirty years later , and oscar and felix are together again . 
that might have been an exciting notion if it wasn't for the fact that the " odd couple " of jack lemmon and walter matthau have been reunited in several recent movies : 1993's " grumpy old men , " 1995's " grumpier old men , " and 1997's " out to sea " ( i . e . 
 " grumpiest old men " ) . 
so , " the odd couple ii " ( i . e . 
 " the grumpiest old men of all , really " ) seems just another entry in a tired series . 
the plot is even similar to that of " grumpy old men " in that lemmon and matthau's mismatched characters are brought together by a romance between their children . 
oscar's son ( jonathan silverman ) and felix's daughter ( lisa waltz ) are getting married , and former roommates felix ungar ( lemmon ) and oscar madison ( matthau ) meet at the airport and decide to share a car . 
 . 
 . 
then hilarity ensues . 
well , a few chuckles ensue anyway . 
neil simon , the award-winning playwright who created oscar and felix , provides the screenplay , which is a shock , because the script is a piece of talentless hackwork from beginning to end . 
unlike the original play/movie , " odd couple ii " doesn't find its humor in the personality conflict of its characters . 
instead , it depends upon a series of humorous situations : oscar and felix lose the car over a cliff , are caught smuggling mexicans over the border , take up with two women on the run from their violent husbands ( the women are played by christine baranski of " cybill " and jean smart of " designing women " ) , and hitch a ride with a man who dies in the desert . 
the original 1968 movie " the odd couple " remains a classic comedy . 
it introduced the motif of roommate-as-spouse that has provided gags for movies and sitcoms ever since . 
it was the second outing for the lemmon/matthau team ( which debuted in 1966's " the fortune cookie " ) , and they made a couple more worthwhile comedies , " the front page " ( 1974 ) and " buddy buddy " ( 1981 ) , before going their separate ways . 
the reunion of lemmon and matthau in " grumpy old men " six years ago was delightful , and its sequel seemed appropriate because it tied up some loose ends from the first movie . 
but " out to sea " and " the odd couple ii " are just beating a grumpy old horse . 
 ( you can add lemmon's " my fellow americans , " i . e . 
 " grumpy old presidents , " to that list , too . ) 
let's hope that hollywood offers these two actors something fresh to do . 
let's hope also that we see neil simon's name on movies that do it justice ( this is his first since 1993's " lost in yonkers " ) . 

blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on . 
things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air . 
while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef . 
suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths . 
are amanda and tom destined to be together ? 
and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ? 
and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ? 
does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ? 
 " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna . 
it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes . 
add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion . 
the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting . 
patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue . 
also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes . 
of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this . 
the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance . 
when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab . 
now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 

after the simple looking little spacecraft lands in a automobile wrecking yard , out steps a steel-gray , human-like creature with aquamarine eyes and clad in a muscular suit . 
spencer , the boy who observes this , having seen his fill of science fiction flicks , figures this thing must be a robot from outer space . 
with the exception of disney and a few others , most studios view children's films as a way to ship a cheap and unimaginative product and thereby make a quick profit . 
star kid stands out as that rare kids' film that is undoubtedly low-budget but is also highly imaginative . 
remember , the robot ? 
it wasn't one at all but rather a " phase one assault cyborsuit . " 
the cyborsuit is actually a prototype combat enhancer developed by the trelkins and jettisoned for latter retrieval when they are under attack from the invading broodwarriors . 
the significant twist in the story is that spencer gets to go inside the cyborsuit , and the cyborsuit , nicknamed cy , has plenty of spunk . 
cy keeps questioning the kid about everything including words like " cool . " 
upon hearing that " command , " cy starts rapidly decreasing the temperature in the cyborsuit until spencer screams for him to stop . 
and when cy speaks , we see spencer's view , the backside of cy's lips and eyes . 
as 12-year-old spencer , joseph mazzello from the jurassic park film series gives a remarkably good performance as a wimpy and initially tongue-tied kid . 
even when enclosed in his powerful new cyborsuit , he has his fears but he learns to overcome them . 
 " if you run away , things don't get better , whether it's bullies , spiders , or girls , " his science teacher advises him after he has difficulties dealing with all three . 
turbo ( joey simmrin ) , the school's chubby bully , beats up on him , spiders frighten him , and , most embarrassing of all , he can't speak when in the presence of his would-be girlfriend . 
with his cyborsuit on , he learns some bravery that transcends his time inside cy . 
spencer lives with his dad and his older teenage sister stacey , played by a smart-mouthed ashlee levitch , who looks like a younger sarah jessica parker . 
stacey derides her brother , whom she barely tolerates , by referring to him only as " the fungus . " 
this whole setup for spencer's downtrodden and delightfully funny life makes his acquisition of some superhuman powers a source of mirth and empowerment . 
the beauty of mazzello's performance is that you can vicariously experience his fear and share in his enjoyment when he goes after the bully to teach him a lesson he'll not soon forget . 
the ensuing mayhem has some of the home alone antics , but the slapstick is kept tightly under control by writer and director manny coto so that one never feels embarrassed to be laughing . 
the romantic angle is handled ever so delicately . 
when cy wishes to know if spencer wants to mate with the object of his desire , michelle ( lauren eckstrom ) , his eyes open wide in revulsion . 
 " mate with her ! " 
spencer exclaims . 
 " pllllleeeeease , i just like her that's all . " 
the show has many funny twists . 
in one , cy sees a man in a barney-like costume and begins firing at him , thinking he is an alien life-form . 
soon things get way out of hand , and cy and spencer have to beat a hasty retreat . 
as proof positive of the show's class , it actually contains tasteful bathroom humor -- thought that was an oxymoron in a kids' picture , didn't you ? 
cy cannot allow spencer to leave the cyborsuit , and what happens when he needs to urinate becomes both sweet and hilarious . 
the director's staging of this sequence is one of the film's more charming moments . 
oh , and eating is pretty funny too . 
spencer , whose idol is the comic book character " midknight warrior , " gets to face the challenge of a lifetime when a broodwarrior comes to capture the cyborsuit . 
spencer's valiant battle gives him a chance to find his mettle . 
and the action sequences in the battle manage to be quite respectable for a kids' show full of inventiveness and lacking the usual repetition . 
for a family movie mixing humor , fantasy , and action , star kid delivers . 
although it's probably not the sort of movie you'd want to see without kids , with them you'll have a magical time with a relatively straightforward but well developed story . 
you'll be rooting for and laughing with spencer and his buddy cy all the way through . 
star kid runs 1 : 41 . 
it is rated pg for fantasy combat . 
although the basically cartoonish broodwarrior might scare the littlest kids , i saw none of this in evidence in our packed screening , so i would say the show is fine for kids five and up , and possibly the younger ones . 
my son jeffrey , age 8 , got really excited about the picture . 
he called it " an especially good movie " and gave it * * * * . 
when i asked him to tell me his favorite characters , he mentioned almost everyone in it from the boy to the cyborsuit to the bully . 

 * * the following review contains spoilers * * 
 " please someone stop joel schumacher before he vomits into a film canister again and tries to pass it off as a movie . " 
-- chuck dowling , the jacksonville film journal 
i wrote the above sentence in my review for 1997's batman and robin . 
apparently , no one heard my words . 
oh , how i wish you had heard them . 
oh how i wish someone had stopped him . . . 
because he's done it again . 
the plot of 8mm is similar to the 1977 paul schrader film hardcore , a surprisingly decent and engrossing tale . 
in fact , it was everything that 8mm is not . 
in the opening minutes of 8mm , we see private detective tom welles ( nicolas cage ) working on a case for a prestigious member of the u . s . government . 
keep this fact in mind , cage is trusted with an important case , which he solves . 
he returns home to his wife and new daughter , and even finds time to rake his yard ( keep that in mind too , it's important as well ) . 
he's hired by a rich elderly woman to solve a mystery . 
after her husband's death she comes across a film in his private safe . 
it appears to be snuff film , a sort of urban legend of the pornography industry in which someone is actually brutally murdered for the camera . 
the woman wants welles to locate the young girl in the film , hopefully to disprove that it is in fact a snuff film . 
so he sets off on a journey into the sordid underworld of sleaze to discover the truth about the film . 
the main problem with 8mm is that the whole film is completely pointless . 
welles is actually selected for the case by the old woman's lawyer ( anthony heald , an actor who always plays the same type of character , that being a bad guy ) . 
when you first see him , your first instinct is that he's behind the whole thing . 
the choice of casting does the film in . 
then , as welles begins his investigation , at times we will see a shadowy figure following him . 
the only person it could possibly be is the lawyer ( or someone sent by the lawyer ) because no one knows welles is even investigating anything yet . 
so your first instinct has now been confirmed . 
then , when it is in fact revealed that the lawyer is a part of the whole thing , he tells welles that he was chosen for the case because he was young and inexperienced ( in one of those ridiculous " since we're going to kill you anyway , why not tell you the whole thing " moments ) . 
but earlier when we see welles being hired for the case he's told that he was hired because he comes highly recommended . 
huh ? 
also , when the lawyer reveals himself to be a part of the whole thing , his main goal is to get the film back . 
so why did he give it up in the first place ? ! 
the lawyer had the film the whole time , then gave it away to the private detective thinking that he would just give up on the case and return the film ? ! 
it's totally absurd . . . 
and this is the screenwriter of seven ? 
late in the film there's a confrontation between all the main characters , and after a struggle one of the character's guns ends up underneath a car . 
cage , who has been handcuffed to a bed , is rapidly trying to get to his gun , which is on a table . 
james gandolfini's character goes for the gun under the car in what is supposed to be a scene of " suspense " . 
you see , the gun is just slightly out of reach from the side of the car he's trying to reach it from , and so instead of going around the car to the other side ( where he can easily reach it ) he just keeps stretching . 
go around to the other side of the car ! ! 
this goes on for minutes . 
then , after cage gets his gun , gandolfini then decides it would be best to go around to the other side of the car . 
boy , schumacher is really really getting on my nerves . 
i think the final straw would be when cage returns home , devastated by everything that he's seen on this case , and then is no longer able to rake his lawn ! 
we actually see a shot of him pathetically poking at leaves in his yard . 
other things that bugged me about 8mm : one would be the music , if you can call it that . 
whenever the score starts up , it sounds like techno music , and then this awful indian or middle eastern type music will accompany it . 
awful decision there joel . 
another is cage's performance . 
at this point he's capable of a wide range of performances , either good or bad . 
for 8mm , he delivers a very wooden one , and only shines when he's interacting with joaquin phoenix ( who gives a great performance as a porn shop clerk with a heart of gold who helps cage with his case ) . 
you're capable of much better mr . cage . 
now as for you mr . schumacher . . . 
i'm starting to doubt if you're capable of anything else besides urinating onto the institution of american cinema . 
[r] 

i must say from the outset that i have never been much of a kurt russell fan . 
i've seen some of his films ( silkwood , backdraft , unlawful entry ) and while he gave adequate performances , i have never been impressed with his work . 
breakdown , then , is something of a surprise . 
russell gives a fine performance , as do most of the cast , one that is not upstaged by the action orchestrated in the second half of the film . 
to say that he holds the film together would not be completely true , but he does it no harm . 
russell plays jeff , one half of a married couple travelling with his wife amy ( kathleen quinlan ) cross country to san diego to start a new job and a new life . 
while journeying through the desert their car breaks down and , left helpless and stranded , jeff waves down a passing truck driver ( j . t . 
walsh ) who offers to take them to a nearby diner to call for a tow truck . 
because of a nasty incident earlier with a couple of ruffians , jeff decides to stay with the car while amy gets help . 
that , it seems , is the last time jeff ( or anyone else ) sees her . 
breakdown has been compared to several movies : george sluizer's the vanishing ( the original , hopefully , not his appalling hollywood remake ) , steven spielberg's duel and any number of hitchcock films . 
as with these , breakdown does not , for the most part , stray down the conventional path of the american action-thriller . 
jeff does not become a gun-toting vigilante on the hunt for his wife , but instead becomes a scared , confused everyman who has no idea what the hell is going on . 
when we do find out what has happened to amy , it does come as a slight disappointment , if only because it's too early in the film ; i for one could have done with an extra twenty minutes or so of mystery and bewilderment , but this affects the film little . 
russell , as mentioned earlier , is very good in his role , and kathleen quinlan is nowhere near as annoying as she was in apollo 13 . 
j . t . 
walsh , as the possibly evil truck driver , is terrific ; he is one of the best of the fine batch of character actors hollywood doesn't seem to know what to do with , but director jonathan mostow is on the right track here . 
the reason he makes such a great villain is that he actually looks like a real person , one anyone would be able to trust , which makes the plot that much more believable . 
breakdown is what hollywood doesn't make enough of , a great thriller with believable characters and scenes that do , indeed , have viewers on the edge of their seats . 
one of the most genuinely exciting films i've seen in a long time . 

assume nothing . 
the phrase is perhaps one of the most used of the 1990's , as first impressions and rumors are hardly ever what they seem to be . 
the phrase especially goes for oscar novak , an architect who is the main focus of three to tango , a delightful , funny romantic comedy about assumptions and being yourself . 
novak ( matthew perry ) , a shy , clumsy , chicago based architect , along with openly gay partner , peter steinberg ( oliver platt ) , fights for projects day in and day out . 
one of these is the job of restoring a popular building for charles newman ( dylan mcdermott ) , a rich , well-known businessman . 
charles immediately takes a liking to oscar , as he enjoys his personality and sense of humor . 
seeing oscar as someone he could trust , charles asks him to watch his girlfriend , an unpredictable , adventurous girl named amy post ( neve campbell ) , who makes a living by blowing glass . 
charles wants to know who she talks to , what she does , and where she goes . 
the point ? 
to make sure she's not seeing someone else , of course . 
oscar gladly takes the job , and meets amy at an art show of hers , and sparks fly between the two from the get go . 
oscar feels he has found the one meant for him , and he is content with the idea of being with amy . 
well , another popular phrase of the 90's is " all good things must come to an end , " and this stays true for oscar as well . 
charles walks in on amy and oscar having a drink one night , as oscar and amy have become great friends , but he doesn't seem to mind . 
why is this ? 
he thinks oscar is gay . 
he's not afraid to share this with him either . 
oscar stands in shock after the words , " i swear if you weren't gay oscar , i'd have to kill you , " are muttered flamboyantly from charles' mouth . 
the word spreads instantly through town . 
will oscar " come out " of his supposed gayness , or will he tell everyone that he isn't ? 
one would immediately think he would deny the fact , but numerous occurrences come to oscar , which result in the fact that if he denies the fact , he could lose his job with charles . 
matthew perry doesn't escape his character as chandler on the already classic t . v . 
comedy " friends , " as both oscar novak and chandler are clueless , shy , and sensitive . 
nonetheless , perry is hilarious here , and shows that he can handle drama , as obviously , his character suffers quite a bit here . 
it's wonderful to see neve campbell outside of a horror movie , ( she was the star of scream 1 and 2 , and the upcoming scream 3 ) as she handles comedy superbly here . 
her voice , smile , and personality are more than perfect for romantic comedies- stay with this genre , neve . 
neve is delightful as her conflicted character , who feels love for oscar , but knows , based on rumors , that he is gay . 
as usual , campbell is likable as her likable character . 
unlike the other two leads here , dylan mcdermott is flat in his dialogue , and is never convincing . 
when his character his present , mcdermott sets a dull tone to the scene with his horrible acting . 
stick to the t . v . 
drama , the practice , dylan . 
the major weak spot in three to tango is the direction of damon santostefano . 
no originality or technique is used whatsoever . 
three to tango is lucky that the script is so edgy and that perry and campbell are wonderful in comedy , or else the film would have been a disaster , as it is just plain boring to look at . 
three to tango is a film done many times before , as the plot is suspiciously close to 1998's the object of my affection , but the plot has never been completed so well . 
three to tango's script , written by rodney patrick vaccaro and aline brosh mckenna is fun , fast , and funny , delivering not only original , hilarious gay jokes ( not your run of the mill material ) , but a certain snappiness in the dialogue between characters that always keeps you smiling . 
unlike last summer's south park : bigger , longer , and uncut and 1997's in & out , three to tango is a comedy in which the gay element is not crude or vulgar . 
the script is wise to take this route , as gays can't ( i don't think so , anyway ) be offended by this light , playful comedy . 
 ( to prove this , a gay couple was in the audience who were laughing constantly . ) 
three to tango's climax is a hilarious , clever scene that is pure irony based on the outcome of most romantic-mistaken identity comedies . 
three to tango is a gem . 
the bottom line : three to tango is a light , sharp , snappy romantic comedy with a superb ending , and great stars . 
one of the better romantic comedies of 1999 . 

at first glance , it appears that the home alone movies are brainless slapstick intended for those with minds of 8-year olds . 
that's true of home alone 2 and i'd bet money that it's true of home alone 3 ( opening soon ) . 
but home alone actually has a lot going for it , and the cartoon slapstick doesn't get in the way . 
the mcalisters , all 15 of them , are going to france for the holidays . 
four adults and eleven kids are spending the night together before heading to the airport en masse . 
the littlest kid , kevin , is the victim of the older kids' cruelty . 
kevin's patience runs out when he learns that his plain-cheese pizza has already been eaten , and he's going to have to starve . 
he attacks his big bully brother buzz , who had been teasing him . 
the fight disrupts the already-chaotic dinner , spilling milk and soft drinks all over the table , a few cousins , and an uncle . 
the knee-jerk reaction is for everyone to blame kevin . 
nobody came to his rescue when he was being teased , but they all point their fingers when he fights back . 
the ultimate punishment comes from mom ( catherine o'hara ) who sends him up to the spare bedroom in the attic for the night . 
on his way up the stairs , he tells her that " families suck " and that he hopes never to see any of his family again . 
that night the power goes out , knocking out the alarm clocks , so the mcalisters wake up in a big hurry to get to the airport . 
in a surprisingly plausible setup , kevin is mistakenly accounted for , and the family heads off without him . 
it's interesting that , in a subtle way , his parents never noticed him missing because of their deliberate desire to separate themselves from their children . 
first they delegate the headcount to an older sibling , and second , they put all the kids in coach while they fly first class . 
they're two-thirds of the way across the atlantic before they realize they are missing a child . 
meanwhile , kevin believes that somehow his wish has come true . 
he's finally rid of his family ! 
life is a dream come true . 
he can jump on the beds , watch r-rated movies , eat gobs of ice cream and potato chips , and dig through his big brother's secret box . 
slowly , the novelty wears off and he settles into the mundane . 
he grooms himself , he does the laundry , he goes shopping ( " i bought some milk , eggs , and fabric softener " ) . 
he also starts to miss his family , not just for their company , but for the security they bring . 
the furnace in the basement is a scary monster , the old man next door is a snow-shovel murderer , and two crooks are trying to break into his house . 
macaulay culkin is cute but he isn't much of an actor . 
still , we can see that kevin's character grows , thanks to some good direction and editing . 
for example , acting has little to do with the emotional impact of the scene where kevin searches out a seasonal santa at night , just as " santa " is getting in his car . 
kevin asks the man to pass on his request - he wants his family back - to the real santa . 
he learned how to deal with the furnace . 
you turn on the lights and it's not so scary anymore . 
he goes to a church one evening and there he sees the snow-shovel murderer , who actually turns out to be a nice man . 
they talk about their fears and kevin learns that age alone does not make you less afraid . 
finally , in the last 20 minutes , kevin confronts his last fear - the bandits , head on ( literally ) . 
this last act is full of violent comedic slapstick , and after the movie's genuine dramatic setup , it is dessert . 
it's a lot of fun , and it doesn't overwhelm the rest of the movie . 
on the whole , home alone is a great holiday movie . 
john williams' original score has the sound and feel of holiday music without the disadvantage of being overplayed at the malls , and the christmas setting can put you in the mood for those family gatherings . 
but it does have its flaws . 
the smallest problem is that culkin doesn't act very well . 
as i said before , he is cute , but repeated viewings reveal more about how columbus covered himself than about culkin's insight into his character . 
the biggest problem is that during the cartoony coda , the villains threaten kevin's life about five times . 
instead of " i'm gonna get that kid " they say " i'm gonna kill that kid . " 
some might argue that the tone is the same , but i strongly disagree . 
mixing comedy with specific and viable threats of murder is a sociopathic faux-pas . 
i'll probably never see home alone 3 , and i wish i had skipped home alone 2 , but i do enjoy home alone almost every year . 
don't let your impressions of the others detract from the original , which has much more to offer than cartoon slapstick . 

if you had a chance to create a genetically perfect child , would you do it ? 
 " gattaca " is a film which presents a future where society has answered " yes " to this question , but then ponders if this was actually the right decision . 
 " gattaca " came out only a couple months following the first genetically engineered creature , the lovable dolly the sheep , and with this in mind , the film only becomes more frightening . 
the way the realm of genetics is heading , it may only take a couple decades until the future " gattaca " presents becomes true . 
contrary to the misleading trailers , " gattaca " is not a sci-fi thriller , in the way that there's lots of murder , hitchcockian suspense , and chase scenes . 
this is a quiet , sad film about intelligent theories . 
in fact , the film seems like it would have been written by george orwell or aldous huxley ( the latter who's novel " brave new world " featured genetically engineered children ) . 
it's a film that may likely become a cult hit to people who are frightened by a promise of shallow utopia , which is exactly what " gattaca " presents . . . and the main reason i dug it so much . 
the story revolves around the genetically insufficient vincent freeman ( ethan hawke ) , a man with high hopes but a 90% chance of heart problems , and a prospected life span of around 30 years . 
as a child , he was put down because of the threats of genetics , while his younger genetically perfect brother , anton ( loren dean ) , was promised whatever his heart desired . 
vincent yearns to be an astronaut , but when he gets a job at a giant space company , it's as a janitor ( ernest borgnine plays his boss ! ) . 
but one day , he finds out that it's probably possible that his desires can come true in the form of a business deal brought out by a black market geneticist ( or something ) , german ( " wings " ' tony shalhoub , who did like hundreds of cameos in films back in '97 : " men in black , " " a life less ordinary " . . . ) , who's client is a genetically perfect man , jerome morrow ( jude law ) , who has unfortunately been crippled . 
fortunately , though , there's no record of the accident , and he's willing to give someone else his life . 
since vincent looks a bit like him . . . 
after a couple alterations ( some minor , some really major ) , he has donned the life of jerome , and is doing his job . 
there , he meets a genetically imperfect woman , irene ( uma thurman , who's genetically perfect in real life anyway , hee hee ) , and the two begin a kind of relationship , albeit a very shallow one since romance is deemed by how great a man's stats are . 
however , a murder of a high-level worker at his office is killed , and one of vincent/jerome's eyelashes is found by the anal retentive investigators headed by a semi-wily inspector , hugo , ( alan arkin ) , and none other than vincent's long lost brother , anton , who hasn't seen him since they were teenagers . 
we know vincent/jerome didn't do it , but with his older picture being posted everywhere , not only vincent/jerome's in trouble , but also the real jerome , who's as much in it as he is . 
however , there isn't many big suspense set pieces , which is actually a blessing because if they were tossed in , the film would lose it's message and descend into just being a sci-fi thriller a la william gibson . 
the suspense in the film comes from the idea that vincent and jerome can easily be captured just by dropping a hair or dead skin . 
while there are several scenes which are pretty frightening , there are no big distractions from the point of the film , much to the dismay of commercial audiences . 
what is actually portrayed is the lack of life in the utopian society that is created . 
irene has no real spunk in her life , and is rather amazed by the sheer beauty of a sunrise rather than genetically perfect people . 
and the genetically flawless jerome is in actuality a bitter man , claiming that his accident was really no accident . 
what jerome has done is fool the system in giving a man who yearns for better things a chance at that , and the ending is shocking as it's a definite work of dystopian propaganda , but doesn't have the down ending of other works of this kind . 
the production design of this film is probably the best i've seen this year : it's stunning , very pleasing to the eye , but still very cold . 
since genetics has ruled out any chance of improvement , the world has cooled into a state of inhumanity , and the sets echo a sense of shallow misery . 
and the sequence of all the high-level workers doing their jobs has a kind of gilliam-esque feel to it , showing the nightmare of slipping into a routine zombie-like life . 
the ability to perfect people has left humanity cold and generally unhappy . 
the acting from everyone is great , with thurman giving a wonderfully cold performance , and hawke creating a character who has been beaten down by the system but has found a new sense of optimism by a bitter man who was willing to give it out anyway ( interesting pointless fact : uma and ethan started dating after this film , and currently she is pregnant with his child ) . 
but the best performance belongs to jude law , who steals every scene he's in , and creates a character filled with the pessimism over having such a horrible burden placed on his burden . 
i think that people are generally tempted by the fact that genetics can actually create perfection in a child , but whether or not they would actually act on this temptation is something i'm not sure of . 
 " gattaca " warns us not to go any farther , chiefly because we'll create a world of elitism where the elite are shallow and unhappy , and as bitter and angry as the lesser people are . 
and when i see a possible future featuring a 12-fingered piano player , well folks , that just creeps me out . 

plot : token director alan smithee steals the only copy of his film " trio " from the studio , after they complete the " final cut " without him . 
he threatens to burn the film reel if they do not allow him to keep his vision . 
critique : wow . 
i really can't remember the last time a movie sucked on so many levels ! 
the " comedy " in this film is pathetic , obvious and dated ( oj simpson jokes galore ) . 
the plot is uninteresting , boring and bad . 
the structure of the film is annoying , repetitive and pretentious . 
the acting is pretty bad , especially jackie chan , who can't act to save his life . 
the cameos are lame and seem forced , and the ending blows chunks . 
all in all , this movie believes itself to be a clever , humorous and edgy look behind the closed doors of hollywood , but comes across as a boring , stupid and completely unentertaining piece of shite . 
i love to see movies about hollywood shenanigans , but this one bites the big one . 
see it if you like to watch really bad movies , otherwise skip it , because it will just have you hating every star that makes an appearance in it . 
luckily for us all , this mess only lasts about 80 minutes , and miramax honcho harvey weinstein plays a lead-faced detective . 
by the way , is there any reason why the studio or the producer couldn't have cut another version of the film by the way of all the filmed stock that was left over ? 
who knows , who cares , this " satire " sucks the bag . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , the original director of this film , arthur hiller , also requested his name be taken off the credits and replaced by the dga's alan smithee moniker . 
this was after the film's production company , cinergi pictures , preferred the cut made by producer/writer joe eszterhas to his . 
the original script of this film included arnold schwarzenegger and bruce willis . 
eszterhas announced through the media during post-production that cinergi pictures didn't have the money to pay for soundtrack . 
he said that he would finance the soundtrack from his own money and asked to submit tracks for it to him . 
he received 9 , 200 cds and cassettes from mostly unknown and unsigned artists , listened to all that was sent ( at least a couple of tracks from each record ) and compiled the soundtrack . 
this film practically swept the " razzie awards " in 1999 , given out to the worst of all movie categories of the year , with no less than the " worst picture " award , the " worst screenplay " ( joe eszterhas ) , the " worst supporting actor " ( joe eszterhas ) , the " worst new star " ( joe eszterhas tied with jerry springer ) and the " worst original song " ( " i wanna be mike ovitz ! " 
as written by joe eszterhas ) . 

toward the bottom of the '80s action movie barrel lies action jackson , the only movie in hollywood history to show sharon stone and vanity topless within a span of ten minutes . 
this carl " apollo creed " weathers vehicle features the traditional cop vs . evil establishment crook , and relies on all the '80s trappings , from the token heroin addict who needs a fix to the shouting superior officer . 
somewhere in between come the explosions and boobs , although there is a curious lack of exploding boobs . 
weathers is action jackson , a detroit cop known for all sorts of crazy vigilante techniques . 
speaking of one past criminal apprehension , jackson's superior yells , " you tore his arm off ! " 
jackson replies , " he had a spare . " 
jackson has been busted down to a desk job because of past problems with auto manufacturer dellaplane ( craig t . nelson ) and now has to act as department liaison to a dinner honoring nelson . 
after hearing what jackson thinks of him , stone says , " i take it you're not one of dellaplane's friends . " 
 " not unless they changed the definition , " jackson glowers . 
and of course it turns out stone is mrs . dellaplane . 
faux pas , jackson . . . 
not everything is happy in motown ; people are being killed and dellaplane has evil plans for the awa . 
it's all up to jackson to stop it , and his only lead lies in vanity ( not his own ) . 
wherever she left off with prince in terms of exchanging sexual favors for career advancement she picks up in action jackson . 
she plays the heroin addict and chanteuse in dellaplane's nightclub . 
after singing one particularly sultry number for him , she saunters over and complains , " i expected a standing ovation . " 
he responds , " you're getting one , " and it's damn clever because he's sitting down at the time . 
prince wouldn't even let out an innuendo that lame and he's the king of the horndogs . . . 
or at least the prince . 
it's a testament to the '80s that sharon stone is killed off within the first 30 minutes but vanity survives the whole movie . 
action jackson is another variation on the " unlikely partners " buddy action flick , with jackson lugging junkie vanity around . 
this leads to some of the worst paired acting of the me decade , and with the dialogue they're given , there's not much room for improvement . 
my favorite is when vanity , feeling the effects of drug withdrawal , says , " i feel like my teeth are hollow , my gums are made of dry rubber and someone's trying to start a bonfire in the back of my bloody head . " 
jackson's response is , " i think i felt that way once . 
they called it love . " 
you'll understand when i say watch this at your own risk . 
serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century ! 

i wish more films would take on issues of faith and morality in the modern world . 
and i wish that film-makers would use commandments as a blueprint on how _not_ to do it . 
writer/director daniel taplitz has created a bizarre conglomeration of satire and soul-searching in this tale of seth warner ( aidan quinn ) , a man of faith who runs into a streak of bad luck which usually inspires country-western lyrics : his pregnant wife drowns , his home is destroyed by a tornado , he loses his job and his dog is crippled by a bolt of lightning . 
convinced that god has broken his half of the covenant , seth decides to break his , and sets out to turn every " thou shalt not " of the ten commandments into a " thou shalt " ( and vice versa ) . 
his wife's sister rachel ( " friends " ' courteney cox ) wants to help seth ; rachel's selfish husband harry ( anthony lapaglia ) , who tends to break a few commandments of his own , thinks seth is a lunatic . 
thus begins a film which picks the wrong tone for every occasion . 
taplitz isn't interested in treating seth's tragedies as genuinely tragic , making it impossible to sympathize with him . 
composer joseph vitarelli provides a score full of whimsical woodwinds , turning seth's sacrilegious mission into an amusing lark ; quinn's performance as seth is all wild-eyed fervor without any genuine pain . 
the actual breaking of the commandments is almost treated as an afterthought , with one through five dispatched in a five-minute montage . 
the result is a character whose actions feel less like the authentic responses of an anguished man than the machinations of a high-concept movie plot . 
it's not even entirely clear that commandments is about seth . 
corporate attorney rachel is given a case which is supposed to soften a hard heart we see no indication she has , while harry gets his comeuppance as part of seth's " false witness . " 
only courteney cox strikes a note of reality in a solid performance ; she is sane center around which too equally troubled men revolve . 
even she can't force taplitz to decide whose story this is , or what we should have learned about dealing with the struggles in our lives and our relationship with the infinite . 
by the time seth makes a singularly biblical reappearance late in the film , it has become clear that taplitz is aiming for a fantastical fable which makes no connection with real human experience . 
commandments is a bad comedy which could have been a decent drama if daniel taplitz had had the guts to take faith -- and the loss thereof -- at all seriously . 

the ads make " hanging up " seem like an upbeat comedy about a rascally father and his three daughters . 
anyone who went to the movie expecting that left disappointed . 
all of the movie's funny scenes were included in the ad . 
so what do we get ? 
eve marks ( meg ryan ) just put her father lou mozell ( walter matthau ) into a hospital . 
once upon a time , lou was a hollywood screenwriter who collaborated with his now-estranged wife . 
his one great moment in life was writing a film for john wayne , who gave him a giant bullet-shaped trophy . 
now lou is senile and deteriorating rapidly . 
eve tries to convince her sisters georgia ( diane keaton ) and maddy ( lisa kudrow ) that their father is dying and needs them . 
both are slow to show concern . 
so devoted eve stands vigil over her father , who constantly asks for his favorite daughter georgia , while running her own business ( planning special events ) and caring for her son ( jesse james ) . 
 ( some comic relief comes when maddy also drops off her ailing st . bernard for eve to care for . ) 
the tension builds until all three sisters are finally in one room at one of eve's events where georgia is the keynote speaker . 
there's a superficial resemblance to shakespeare's " king lear " ( senile king with three daughters : one devoted saint and two selfish bitches ) , but the material is apparently drawn from life . 
sister screenwriters delia and nora ephron had parents who were a successful hollywood writing team . 
henry and phoebe ephron collaborated on 17 screenplays , including " desk set " and " there's no business like show business . " 
 ( delia's novel , the basis for the film , is dedicated to henry ) . 
surprisingly , the script is as thin as an anorexic's wet dream . 
the virtue of a semi-autobiographical project would seem to be the wealth of material available . 
yet , the ephrons provide only the barest minimum of information about their characters . 
also , the spaces they inhabit seem artificial . 
eve lives in a house that looks like a magazine layout ; no matter how put-upon she is , we can't feel sorry for anyone whose house is so pristine on any given day . 
georgia is a famous magazine editor , and in her brief scenes while she chats on a cell phone with eve seem like the photo spread for a profile . 
when we first meet maddy , she's fishing at a picturesque mountain stream . 
i expected to see the credit " cinematography by 'vanity fair . ' " 
and , yes , diane keaton is literally old enough to be lisa kudrow's mother . 
to her credit , though , she looks young enough to pull it off . 
the one redeeming aspect of " hanging up " is that , at its core , is a truth about siblings . 
there's always one on which everyone else in the family relies , freeing the others to be selfish and emotionally distant . 
my wife is the reliable child in her family ; for better or worse , my brother has the role in mine . 
 ( being selfish and emotionally distant may not be fulfilling , but it is a lot less work ) . 
if you have nothing better to do than watch this movie , look for a powerful cameo by cloris leachman as the sisters' mother pat . 
in a devastating scene , eve discovers that her mother doesn't love her . 
although leachman is best known for comedies like " young frankenstein " and " the mary tyler moore show , " her performance here reminded me of the considerable dramatic talent she displayed in " the last picture show . " 
bottom line : everyone involved has lived in hollywood so long they don't recognize real life anymore . 

deceiver is a plot twist in search of a movie . 
this overly constructed film succeeds in having many surprises , and , being true to its title , being deceptive . 
but there is little in the film that is worthy of deceit . 
braxton ( chris penn ) and kennesaw ( michael rooker ) are two cops investigating the brutal murder of a prostitute ( renee zellweger ) . 
their lone suspect is wayland ( tim roth ) , a wealthy young man whose phone number was found in the hooker's pocket . 
however , a routine lie detector test turns against the investigators , as the crafty wayland somehow turns the tables . 
braxton and kennesaw are forced to confront their own troubled lives . 
braxton is a gambling addict in deep to mook ( ellen burstyn ) , a local bookie . 
kennesaw is bitter about his marriage to a socialite ( rosanna arquette ) , believing his wife to be unfaithful . 
the plot is twisty and complex , with lots of lengthy flashbacks , and plenty of surprises . 
however , there are times when it is needlessly complex , and at least one instance the storytelling turns so muddled that the answers to important plot points actually get lost . 
take a look at l . a . confidential , or the film's more likely inspiration , the usual suspects for how a complex plot can properly be handled . 
the dialogue in deceiver is as overcrafted as the plot . 
for example , the film tells a few substories ( such as the tale of a woeful absinthe bender , or an alternative telling of how van gogh lost his ear ) , but they are so flat and so plastic that they come off as prefabricated and unbelievable . 
there's never the sense that these are real characters engaging in conversation . 
they appear to be nothing more than words on a screenplay . 
the characters , themselves , are rather pathetic and despicable . 
not one of them is an ounce sympathetic , and as a result , the labyrinthine plot is all for naught . 
what does it matter who is guilty of what and why ? 
writer-directors josh and jonas pate seem to desire to emulate the coen brothers' masterwork blood simple , or the wachowski brothers' less worthy bound . 
but , while they have got the plot twists down cold , they need to work on characterization and dialogue . 

 " holy man " boasts a sweet , gentle , comic performance from an unusually subdued eddie murphy and a few moderately funny skits . 
unfortunately , to get to the good stuff you have to sit through a painfully long set-up , loads of tedious filler , interminable shots of jeff goldblum stammering and twitching , a superfluous romantic subplot and quite possibly the most annoying performance of robert loggia's career . 
if ever a movie screamed " wait for video so you can fast-forward through all the dull and annoying parts , " this is it . 
eddie murphy plays g , a robed nomadic pilgrim wandering the land enjoying the moment and spreading his spiritual message . 
a chance meeting with ricky hayman ( goldblum ) , a stressed-out executive of a home-shopping channel , and kate newell ( kelly preston ) , a no-nonsense media analyst , results in physical injury to g . quicker than you can say " the odd couple , " g ends up rooming with an extremely leery ricky . 
after some script gymnastics , g appears live on the air at the good buy shopping network , wreaking havoc on the cheesy product demonstrations , enraging network owner mr . mcbainbridge ( loggia ) , and becoming a national media sensation . 
 " holy man " attempts to be several things at once . 
it tries to satirize home shopping networks , but it's difficult to effectively make fun of something that is already a self-parody . 
the film attempts to teach us that collecting material possessions is merely a futile attempt to fill the spiritual holes in our hearts , but that's common knowledge already . 
 " holy man " also tries to present a story of redemption , as ricky hayman tries to decide whether to exploit g's good will to achieve financial security or do the right thing at the expense of his career . 
anyone want to place a wager on his final decision ? 
the one genuine asset in " holy man " is eddie murphy , who gives a charming performance , sharing love , good will and relevant advice to all those around him , while beaming his million dollar smile at just the right moments . 
murphy is delightful and the film takes off whenever he's onscreen . 
unfortunately , he's not onscreen enough . 
jeff goldblum gets the lion's share of screen time and his tired storyline weighs the proceedings down . 
as his potential love interest , kelly preston tries to brighten things up , but she transforms from an all-business media shark to an empathic softy far too quickly and the abrupt change reeks of contrivance . 
the other principal actor , robert loggia , wastes his talents in a one-note turn as a ruthless , screaming monster . 
structurally unsound and way too long , " holy man " is appealing when murphy is onscreen and dull when he isn't . 
instead of dropping your money at the theater for this trifle , wait until it hits video and fast-forward past everything except the murphy scenes . 
g suggests that we focus on enjoying the moment and that's the best way to do so . 

breakdown is an moderately entertaining , if underwhelming , thriller . 
kurt russell and kathleen quinlan play couple jeff and amy taylor , taking the scenic route to california through redneck country . 
however , while in the middle of nowhere , their jeep decides to break down , leaving them stranded . 
a friendly truck driver , warren ( walsh ) , offers to give them a lift to town . 
although jeff rejects the offer ( he wants to stay with his car ) , amy agrees , hops into warren's lorry , and promptly disappears . 
jeff wonders where the hell she is , and when he later catches up with warren and warren says he has never seen amy in his life , the plot thickens and jeff goes on a chase to find his wife . 
although comparisons can be made with this film to deliverance ( 1972 ) and the vanishing ( 1993 ) plot wise , the latter two are far superior character and script wise . 
kurt russell is o . k as jeff , although he can seemingly only pull of one expression , which is angry . 
throughout the whole film , he looks angry ( or just pissed off . ) 
quinlan is o . k again , but again she can only pull off one expression , which is looking dorky . 
throughout the whole film , she looks dorky . 
j . t walsh ( who , sadly , recently passed away ) is fine as warren ( who we soon find out is a kidnapper ) although his actual character is pretty weak , and not really menacing enough . 
the supporting cast do their best aswell , with rex linn as a doubting sheriff , and the other kidnappers . 
the story , written by first-timer jonathan mostow ( who also directs ) is o . k , if surprisingly familiar and sometimes extraordinarily stupid . 
some of the things the characters do in this movie is beyond the bounds of idiocy . 
there are some flaws with the plot also , as the characters do the complete opposite to logical ( presumably to keep the story 'exciting' ) and also the fact that the story just isn't strong enough to sustain the audience's attention . 
the picture moves along very slowly also . 
it almost threatens to drop dead . 
the picture does pick up towards the end , but by then it's too late . 
mostow directs the action sequences well enough , however . 
the film doesn't really come to a satisfying conclusion , either . 
the ending tries to be bleak , but just comes off annoying . 
breakdown could of been a far more enjoyable picture had it had a stronger cast and director . 
instead , it just turns out to be merely average . 
a missed opportunity . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock 

conventional wisdom among collectibles retailers is that children's items begin to dramatically escalate in price about twenty-five or thirty years after the item was made . 
that's when the kids of that time have jobs , disposable income and a desire to re-visit the awe and wonderment of childhood that has disappeared from their lives . 
check out the prices of toys from the late sixties and you'll find that yogi bear lunch boxes are demanding big bucks . 
there's a heavy nostalgia nowadays for the late sixties and early seventies and nowhere is it more apparent than on the big screen . 
boomers are now mostly in their forties and fifties and have lived in the work-a-day world for a long time . 
they'd like to re-capture some of that fun they remember from days of yore . 
hollywood seems more than eager to churn out product to help them . 
directors are zealous to put their stamp on icons from that time . 
and for the most part they're messing it up . 
 " mission impossible " , " lost in space " , " godzilla " , " zorro " . 
none of these successfully capture the originals . 
none of these are even good films . 
you can now add " the avengers " to the list . 
the british television series began in 1961 . 
super secret agent john steed ( then-patrick macnee ) and his third partner , emma peel ( then-diana rigg ) are the pair that the american audience fell for . 
surrealistic and witty , the series fit the mood of the times . 
the leather-clad rigg probably didn't hurt the ratings either . 
after all it's not a coincidence that you can't pronounce her character's name without " appeal " . 
now we're in the nineties . 
steed ( now-ralph fiennes ) and peel ( now-uma thurman ) are battling evil genius sir august de wynter ( sean connery ) who is screwing with england's weather . 
that's about as much of a plot as we have . 
there's some footage about a lot of other things that either don't make sense or make even less sense . 
we get betrayal for some unknown reason . 
evil clones appear and vanish and have no connection to the film . 
remarkably ineffective giant flying robot wasps with machine guns in their belly come from nowhere for no good reason . 
there's a high tech hot air balloon , but i have no idea why anyone's in it . 
the spy agency is run by a man called " mother " who is in a wheelchair and a woman named " father " who is blind . . . at 
least in some scenes . 
there's probably a reason for all of this , but we'll never know it . 
macnee makes an appearance of sorts . 
he is the voice for an invisible man whose character goes nowhere in a scene that does nothing . 
a group of villains sits around a table , all clad in huge pastel-colored teddy bear outfits . 
at first it's humorous to watch the teddies waddle around , but then it becomes goofy . 
the movie is a medley of clutter , confusion and wrong decisions around every corner . 
it feels like major portions of the film are missing . 
the storyline jumps rather than flows . 
reportedly the film was re-cut several times . 
this is one of those times where the whole is less than the sum of the parts especially since some of the parts appear to be missing . 
there's one good point where peel is running from one room to another in a house designed by escher . 
other than that , the effects are second-rate . 
the weather threat is old hat as are the scenes of huge tornadoes . 
thurman almost makes an adequate emma peel but it doesn't work . 
she looks good , dresses in all the right fetish outfits but there's no spark . 
fiennes fares even less well . 
macnee's steed was a witty man of the world with a sense of humor . 
fiennes' agent comes across as a dour kid in grown-up clothes who has never been out of his home town . 
even connery , one of the greatest living actors , doesn't have much of a presence outside of a few fiery scenes . 
the action scenes are difficult to follow . 
director jeremiah chechik ( responsible for the atrocious remake of " diabolique " ) somehow manages to put the camera exactly where it shouldn't be . 
things happen , people move around , but even if , with the utmost effort , you were able to care about any of it , the scenes are bewildering . 
the primary allure of the original was the interaction between the two leads . 
witty banter and an underplayed sexual tension were a winning combination . 
admittedly there are a few humorous sexual puns in the film , but there's no chemistry and the repartee is anything but clever . 
one of emma peel's first lines of dialog is " rules are made to be broken . " 
it doesn't get any better . 
advance word alone should have been enough to scare off anyone . 
the release date was changed several times . 
connery refuses to promote the film . 
there was no screening for critics which may have been a good choice for warner brothers . 
at least this way , they get something of an audience for the first weekend before the news gets out . 
admittedly i haven't seen an episode of the television series for a couple of decades . 
my guess is that it would be severely dated now . 
no matter how antiquated it might be , there's no doubt that it holds up better than this film is at first viewing . 
there's no reason to waste any part of the last few days of summer inside watching this movie . 
no reason at all . 

of circumcision , psychic wounds and the family sitcom 
the opening segment is something of a foretaste of this film . 
there's a guy's voice telling us how he tries to imagine what his biological parents look like , and on the screen we see images of a variety of oldish men and women . 
as his imagination plays o n , he ( and we ) picture these motley characters in a mix-and-match shuffle of unlikely marriages , businesswomen with bums , matrons with paint salesmen , the images coming on in a faster and faster frenzy . 
it's not just a witty , funny summing up of the film 's themes - you might not guess it yet , but it sets the pattern for the way the story goes on . 
what starts out as a step in a fairly sensible direction , gets taken on a road trip , put through a detour or two and finds itself freewheeling towards an immin ent crash . 
that may not sound so different from the average family sitcom , and the general idea of the film doesn't , at first , seem so wildly distant from standard-issue hollywood comedy : man who was adopted as a child ( ben still er ) sets out on a journey to meet his real parents , along with his wife ( patricia arquette ) , his baby , and a pretty psychology-researcher ( tea leoni ) in tow . 
various mix-ups , shenanigans , oddball characters and , yup , disasters follow . 
but if you think you've been here before , the dialogue and the direction ( by david o . russell , who made spanking the monkey ) take it into another dimension . 
the dreaded t-name seems an inevitable reference point ( what with a drug overdose scene and the casting of arquette from true romance ) but really the point is that the foot-massage master hasn't got a monopoly on plot twists and fast , funny , irreverent lines , or on the absurdities of ordinary speech . 
whether it's about circumcision , psychic wounds , oral sex , carjacking , the beauties of the armpit area , or ronald reagan , the script never seems to run out of hilarious invention . 
the best thing is how these words aren't just there for the punchlines , but are great precisely because they're said in character , like tea leoni's neurotically-charged psychobabbler who's able to say under assault , " it's understandable if you find this threatening " . 
the cast is excellent throughout , and , rather than singling out anybody , kudos are due to the fine ensemble acting , with the sometimes frenetically overlapping dialogue and the sense of a dozen different reagents colliding to the point of fission . 
there are some elements of a woody allen film in this ( not to mention the hand-held camera and loose , improvisational feel of some scenes ) . 
like allen , russell's interests are in the volatile sexual politics of couples and the neurotic obsessions in both pare nts and children ( and everybody , really ) . 
still , if you're expecting a privileged moment of revelation and emotional outpouring a la " murphy brown " / " frasier " / fill-in-the-blank-american-comedy , well , it won't happen . 
the film sets up expectations like these , with the lead character's search f or his origins and his hopes of self-healing , only to knock them down . 
if the conventional sitcom structure is to put a slightly loopy family in catastrophic conditions only to rediscover their essential lovey one-ness , flirting with disaster's charact ers embark on a journey to seek that essential state but find themselves only plunging into more weirdness and dysfunctional chaos the further they go . 
and that , the film suggests , is the essential family state - and you better learn to love it . 
somehow , this is perversely feelgood cinema , right up to its manic end . 

i heard actor skeet ulrich discussing this film in a couple of interviews , and in both instances , he felt the strange compulsion to compare it a little series of films called lethal weapon . 
now , i personally remember those films as a ) starring a major motion picture star b ) being funny c ) having great action sequences d ) great chemistry e ) decent character development . 
hmmm . . . . okay . . . now on to my review of chill factor . 
plot : a graveyard shift regular working joe and ice cream truck driver fall onto a malicious plan by an ex-army general , to propose a nuclear device to international prospects . 
when the device suddenly falls into their reluctant laps , they must keep it cool on ice , and rush it over to an army base , before the contraption ticks over 50 degrees fahrenheit , and kills millions of people . 
critique : " speed on an ice-cream truck " is probably the pitch that was used to sell this one-tone movie to its backers , but unfortunately , the only way that anyone could compare this film to that tension-filled , original two hours of cinema , is in its distinct honor of being the complete opposite of what that film , and the lethal weapon movies , stood for . 
this film is seasoned in cliches , with plenty of badly written dialogue , over the top acting from cuba gooding jr . , zero chemistry between the two leads , and horribly tacky bad guys , tossed in to complete an overall bad movie recipe . 
my friend and i enjoyed watching this movie to a certain extent , because some of the lines in it were so bad and obviously " written " , that we just had to crack up . 
that , and the formula for the film's script which followed the proverbial 1-2- , and you guessed it . . . 3 scenario ! 
and what about all those catchy , hip names to get us to relate to the characters . . . . " elvis " 
and " nighshift " , oh what talent lies in the minds of these screenwriters ( and yes , it actually took two guys to come up with this regurgitated drivel ) . 
it is unfathomable to me as to how actors skeet ulrich and cuba gooding jr . got involved in this one-week-old-blue-cheese-smelling project . 
did they actually think that it would boost their careers , or did they know that the script sucked , but discounted any fall from grace , knowing full well that the stack of cash in their back pockets would pad their fall ? 
most probably the latter . 
have you seen either fled or bulletproof ? 
well , despite the slight differences in plot , the essentials are basically the same here . 
you get a black guy and a white guy being chased by a bunch of people , having no choice but to work together to get somewhere , hating each other at first , but over time , learning to respect one another as individuals . 
yawn . 
add to that , the fact that our film actually has bad guys who are all dressed in black , drive black cars and black vans , and run around with all kinds of telecommunicative devices sprinkled around their head . 
not too conspicuous , eh ? 
call me a party-pooper , but as much as i like a nice cheezy movie as much as the next guy , this film just doesn't even try to do anything original or reasonably entertaining . 
one cool scene with a boat careening down a mountainside , and another with a nuclear device obliterating everything on an island , do not a fun , buddy-action flick make . 
show cuba the money , everybody ! 
 : ) 
little known facts about this film and its stars : this is not a little known fact or anything , but damn , is it just me or does skeet ulrich look an awful lot like great-looking actor johnny depp ? 
skeet's real-life nicknames include chester , skeeter and mosquito . 
he stands 6'1 " , was born in north carolina , and got married in 1997 to that sex-kitten actress from clay pigeons ( 7 . 5/10 ) , 
georgina cates . 
they own a farm together in virginia and seven dogs . 
skeet has a long scar on his chest from open-heart surgery done when he was 10 to correct a ventricle defect . 
actor cuba gooding jr . was born in the bronx , new york . 
in 1984 , he break-danced during the closing ceremonies of the olympic games in los angeles . 
he stands 5'10 " . 
actress hudson leick , who plays one of the " bad guys/girls " in his movie , is better known from her role as " callisto " on the popular tv series " xena : princess warrior " . 
this film reportedly had a budget of $40 million ? ? 
i'm not exactly sure where all this money went , but it certainly did not register onscreen . 
interestingly enough , director hugh johnson , who makes his big screen debut with this film , was the cinematographer on the 1996 film white squall and the 1997 demi moore vehicle , g . i . 
jane ( 6 . 5/10 ) . 

 " i know what you did last summer , " the first high-profile slasher thriller to be released after 1996's " scream , " and written by the same screenwriter , kevin williamson , is a stylish , effective horror film that became 1997's biggest hit of the fall season . 
while " scream " was a more knowing film about the genre , " i know what you did last summer " is more reminiscent of a straight-forward slasher flick , but it is far more intelligent than such bottom-of-the-barrel guilty pleasures as all nine of the " friday the 13th " films ( well , okay , " jason goes to hell " was pure hell to sit through ) . 
the film starts off with four talented , aspiring teenage friends who have just graduated from high school in their small boating town of southport , n . c . 
it is the 4th of july , and they will soon be heading their separate ways . 
kind-hearted julie ( jennifer love hewitt ) , and outsider ray ( freddie prinze jr . ) will be headed off to college , while helen ( sarah michelle gellar ) , who has just been honored croaker queen in the town , and her ignorant jock boyfriend , barry ( ryan phillippe ) , are going to new york to become an actress and football player . 
when the four of them travel to a nearby mountain-side beach for the evening , they are dismayed after hitting a man in the road on their way home . 
distraught and confused , they decide they can't go to the police because they will be charged with manslaughter , so they devise a plan to throw the apparently dead victim off a peer into the ocean , in hopes no one will find him . 
julie is apprehensive about it , but is forced into it by barry . 
switch to exactly a year later , julie , still unable to come to terms with what she did , reluctantly returns home from college to find that all three of her old friends are still in the town because their career plans did not work out . 
almost immediately , julie recieves an ominous letter that simply reads , " i know what you did last summer , " and that is the start of their problems as they find themselves being terrorized by a mysterious figure dressed in fisherman gear and yielding a giant hook . 
 " i know what you did last summer , " is a successful horror film for a number of reasons . 
the cinematography by denis crossan could very well be described as hitchcockian , as it put shadows , fog , steam , and other clever devices to add atmosphere to the proceedings . 
the characters , particularly julie and helen , are realistically written , and the film amazingly deals with their broken relationship in a few scenes , which is largely uncharacteristic in films of this sort . 
and last , the film creates a few dazzling and scary set-pieces that are some of the most memorable i've seen in a horror movie , particularly the suspenseful , superbly shot sequence involving helen at her family's store with the killer inside with her . 
perhaps the best character is that of missy egan ( anne heche ) , a lonely backwoods woman whose brother was the one julie thinks they hit . 
heche's performance is a standout , as she is able to create a full character in only about ten minutes of screen time . 
 " i know what you did last summer , " could have been a great horror movie if not for a few problems . 
prinze jr . gives a performance to be desired here , and much of his dialogue sounds wooden coming out of his mouth . 
also , the climax of the film almost completely loses its frightening grip after it unveils the mystery killer , who is a decidedly bad actor and should not have been given any lines . 
luckily , the penultimate scene saves the disappointing finale , which includes an expertly crafted " jump-in-your-seat " scare . 
in the main roles , hewitt and gellar are highly talented , and hewitt , especially , is one of the best screamers i've ever heard . 
she honestly could give jamie lee curtis a little competition for the best " scream queen . " 
and gellar is touching as a young woman who , in the course of one year , finds her dream of being an actress ultimately shattered . 
although not up to the level of either " scream " movies , or the more recent , " urban legend , " " i know what you did last summer " is a respectable , smartly-scripted slasher film that firmly proved good horror movies were once again being made . 

joe versus the volcano is really one of the worse movies made in very recent memory . 
the strangest thing is that you would think nothing would go wrong with it . 
it has a solid cast with tom hanks & meg ryan as the lead roles . 
but you can never judge a movie by its cast . . . 
if there is one good thing about joe vs the volcano , it is that the plot is original . 
unfortunately , it is also incredibly stupid . 
the movie begins with joe ( tom hanks ) going to work . 
this opening sequence is very boring and slow . 
it shows joe walking to his office . 
but on the way , he has to wait in a long line passing by strange and slightly depressing scenery with obnoxious lighting . 
a sequence like this should take 2 minutes . 
here , it takes over 5 . . . 
it is obvious that joe hates his job . 
at his office , one of his co-workers is meg ryan . 
oddly enough , she plays 3 different roles in this movie ! ! 
joe leaves to go to a doctor's appointment . 
his doctor informs him that he has a " brain cloud . " 
this means that in a few months , he will die . 
so what does joe do ? 
quit his job , of course ! ! 
when he arrives home , joe meets an old man named graynamore ( lloyd bridges ) . 
graynamore tells joe that in order to get some important mineral for his company from an island , the natives need someone to sacrifice to their volcano to please their fire god . 
by a startling coincidence , the boat trip to the island takes a few months . 
by the time he reaches the island , he will almost be dead from the " brain cloud " anyway , so joe agrees . 
graynamore gives joe a credit card to buy everything he needs to go on this " great adventure " . 
joe goes on a date with meg ryan , his co-worker . 
the day before the boat trip , joe meets one of graynamore's daughters . 
she is also , surprise , meg ryan . 
except she looks more hippyish . 
they both have dinner and the next day , joe gets driven over to his boat . 
the lady that sails the boat is another one of graynamore's daughters . 
and , wonder of wonders , she is also played by meg ryan . 
as they sail to the island , meg ryan tells joe that the natives of the island have a craving for orange soda . 
after some stupid talking scenes , they also deduce that graynamore had his doctor be the one that joe went to . 
and that the " brain cloud " thing was made up ! ! 
they do plently of cheap special effects on the boat voyage . 
joe goes fishing and catches a hammerhead shark . 
this is a cheap gag that has been pulled off many times . 
but , to top it off , the shark is obviously rubber and fake ! ! 
one night there is a storm . 
a cheap-looking lightning bolt strikes the boat and everything is cast overboard . 
fortunately , joe and meg ryan manage to find some of the luggage that joe brought to sail . 
by pure luck , they get to the island . 
since the natives like orange soda , they wear soda cans as attire ! ! 
stupid or what ? 
 ; ) before joe leaps in the volcano , he gets fed . 
right before he jumps , meg ryan pleads him not to . 
when joe decides to , she goes in with him because " she loves him " . 
now this is where the movie should end . 
but , unfortunately , the " cheesy ending " bug comes in . 
the volcano blows the couple out and into the ocean where they land on joe's luggage . 
they float to another part of the island as they watch lava pouring out of the volcano towards the villagers . 
i give this movie a . 
see it only if you're a film buff that enjoys a bad movie every now and then or if you really like tom hanks or meg ryan . . . 

the lives of older people in the twilight of their years attempting to come to grips with their shared histories and possible futures is a fascinating topic . 
finding an all-star cast for such a film is a stroke of genius . 
combining all that with a three-time oscar-winning director ( robert benton of " kramer vs . 
kramer " ) and creating a decidedly mediocre movie is the stuff of disappointment . 
in yet another noir mystery set in hollywood -- how many of these have we seen during the past few years ? 
-- the atmosphere is moody , the actors enjoyable to watch and the story goes nowhere . 
over-70 harry ross ( paul newman ) is a washed up cop-turned-private eye-turned man friday trying to figure out how to live what remains of his life . 
he's screwed up things pretty well ( " i had a wife and daughter . 
now , i'm a drunk ) and is at a crossroads . 
a couple of years ago , he traveled to mexico to bring back mel ( reese witherspoon ) , the under-age daughter of jack ( gene hackman ) and catherine ( susan sarandon ) ames and now lives with them . 
the ames are former movie stars , past their prime and the three have become fast friends . 
one gets the impression that ross is just hanging out waiting for something to wake him up . 
to fill his time , he does odd jobs for jack and falls in love with catherine . 
jack is in even worse shape than harry . 
he's dying of cancer with only a year to live . 
things do turn more exciting when jack asks harry to drop off a sealed manila envelope for him . 
instead of the routine errand that ross expects , he walks into a barrage of bullets from the gun of another ex-cop who is , himself , full of bloody holes . 
this unsettling event gives the former detective a project to throw himself into and launches an investigation that revolves around the mysterious disappearance of catherine's first husband 20 years before . 
through a series of very complex and convoluted plot devices that involve murder ; blackmail ; guns ; mel's mexico traveling partner and his parole officer ; ross's former cop buddies , ex-lover and would-be sidekick , the tale finally ends up exactly where everyone expects it to . 
it's a film noir tradition that the story twists and turns down side roads for an unexpected finale , but here the journey meanders towards an ending that no one cares about . 
the only surprises are exactly whose face fits which role in the scenario . 
by the time they show you , it doesn't matter . 
the storyline gets goofier and goofier exemplified in ross's relationship with rubin ( giancarlo esposito ) , a partner wannabe . 
these scenes are obviously designed to be comic relief , however they are neither . 
rubin and ross have some past relationship but either it's not explained or i didn't care enough at that point to remember . 
a running joke about where harry was supposedly shot while in mexico is probably meant to mirror his questions about whether he is still able to perform . 
it's also not funny , doesn't connect and keeps on showing up long after it has run its course . 
on the positive side , it's often enjoyable to watch the seasoned actors on the screen . 
the three leads all have well-deserved academy awards and turn in accomplished , if not extraordinary jobs . 
newman is a grand actor , but doesn't seem quite suited to the dark film style . 
he is a bit too clean and understated to come across as desperate and down and out . 
hackman , also low-key , is believable but lacks sparkle . 
sarandon comes across well as an sultry older babe although she is one-dimensional . 
the actors do what they can with lame dialog , but they can't pull the film out of the hole it's dug for itself . 
james garner who plays ross's old buddy ex-cop raymond hope is always a treat , but even he half-heartedly struggles through lines like " i'm glad they didn't shoot your pecker off . " 
the best part of the film is the look at old friends , how their relationships change over the years and the difficult choices they must make . 
the genuinely easy and casual interactions among the actors hint that being on the set was much more interesting than what ended up on the screen 
the film doesn't run very long before the audience realizes that it's hopeless . 
the only reason for watching is the actors . 
it reminds me of disaster movies such as " towering inferno " where the star power is supposed to make everyone ignore the film's problems . 
in a better world , there would have been second-rate actors in this second-rate movie and the ones here would have been saved for something better . 
of course , we don't live in that better world , but you could make yours a little nicer by choosing a different movie . 

[note : after claiming otherwise , my appetite was indeed whetted by kenneth branagh's hamlet to search out other attempts to translate shakespeare to film in hopes of finding a better mousetrap . 
as it happens , it didn't take long . ] 
is there a more romantic director than franco zeffirelli ? 
known mainly to american audiences as the man behind 1968's romeo and juliet ( required viewing for many high schoolers , and as much as most ever learn of shakespeare ) , he is also a favorite at the metropolitan opera , where his achingly beautiful designs further the already lush emotion of many a puccini aria . 
last year he gave us his beautifully realized version of jane eyre , one of the twin peaks ( with wuthering heights ) of romantic literature . 
it might seem peculiar , then , that zeffirelli ever had an interest in translating hamlet for the screen . 
at first blush , hamlet is far removed from romance . 
the hero , though a prince , is depressed , conflicted and confused . 
the ostensible love interest gets little screen time , and her scenes with her prince are usually as an object of mockery . 
the plot is full of political intrigue and the players are as cursed as the house of atreus . 
it is zeffirelli's genius , however , that he is able to expose the romantic core of hamlet and give the sometimes dry tale an emotional embrace . 
in this italian master's hands , romance is everywhere -- in a son's worship of his father , in the bonds of deepest friendship , in the private thoughts of young lovers , even in the mystery of castles by the sea . 
after all , the story hinges on a ghost , and what could be more romantic than that ? 
what seemed like a cheap way to sell tickets at the time turned out to be one of the most romantic gestures of all , namely , hiring then-reigning hollywood hunk mel gibson to play the lead . 
who could believe that the man who made his mark playing mad max and a " lethal weapon " ( in the series of the same name ) would have the skill to succeed in the most famous role in the english language ? 
franco zeffirelli , that's who . 
and it is apparent in every frame that his instinct was right on the money . 
what gibson brings to the role is a naturalness and ease which makes the whole story meaningful , not to mention comprehensible . 
his line readings sound spontaneous rather than rehearsed . 
his movements and gestures ( excepting his sometimes too active eyes ) are totally in keeping with the character . 
this is a hamlet whose pain we feel , whose struggle we empathize with , and whose death we mourn as sincerely as horatio at film's end . 
glenn close , the other big name in the production , also does well by the script and satisfies as hamlet's mother , gertrude -- though i must confess i'm still trying to understand the character as written . 
 ( zeffirelli's incestuous interpretation of hamlet's relationship with his mother doesn't help . ) 
alan bates makes a believably evil claudius without resorting to the mannerisms of a hollywood heavy . 
by and large the rest of the cast performs admirably and comfortably . 
of special note are the cinematography by david watkin and the score by ennio morricone . 
both support the realistic mood marvelously ( as do the sets and costumes ) , without any overstated effects that declare " this is important ; this is shakespeare ! " 
i particularly appreciate that the words are often spoken without any music at all : the melody of a wonderfully wrought phrase is given its due . 
perhaps it is difficult to call edited shakespeare " definitive . " 
and there are certainly quite a few other filmed versions of hamlet that i have not seen . 
but if you've ever felt the urge to overcome your fear of the bard , this hamlet is an excellent place to start . 

 " through a spyglass , i could see everything . " 
king louis xvi was beheaded on january 21 , 1793 , but instead of visualizing this act of regicide , legendary auteur eric rohmer's the lady and the duke observes from afar . 
consider it a view to a kill made abstract . 
a proper british ( yes , british ) gentlewoman , grace elliott ( lucy russell ) , and her loyal maidservant gaze from a lofty terrace in meudon at the glistening city of paris , where raucous crowds seem tinier than ants . 
the maid narrates what little she sees of the execution through her telescope ( often muttering , " i don't know , " ) as the sound of cheering patriots and revolutionaries echoes through the air . 
what we don't see might not be able to hurt us . 
just close your eyes and think of england . 
during times of revolution , the aristocracy may feel a false sense of calm in their parlor halls , discussing tumultuous events over glasses of sherry until the walls cave in on them . 
adapted from elliott's memoirs , journal of my life during the french revolution , rohmer's latest artistic tour-de-force may seem far removed from his domestic comedies ( tales of the four seasons , etc . ) , a period film set during the most violent changes in french history . 
resisting the temptation for grand-scale theatrics , much of the lady and the duke is about quiet , decisive moments between members of the cultural elite as they determine how to proceed as the world implodes . 
grace elliott makes for an unlikely protagonist : a headstrong , snobbish blueblood , one unprepared for the machinations of history that sweep her along . 
a foreigner who accepts the french king as her own , grace's life seems defined by fancy attire and lively political debate with her former lover , the king's hot-blooded cousin , prince philipe , duke of orleans ( jean-claude dreyfus ) . 
the times are changing , though , and the gears inch ever closer toward violence . 
during the september massacres of 1792 , she is encountered by a procession of rioters brandishing the head of the duke's sister-in-law on a stake . 
rohmer makes a harsh transition from tranquil , old fashioned , almost stagy parlor scenes to the swell of an angry mob . 
in doing so , he achieves what braveheart and the patriot could not : the face of death . 
when grace sees her friend's disembodied head on a pole , rohmer's attention drifts from the societal change to one woman's reaction shot , laden with hot tears . 
grace finds herself taking in a fugitive from justice , sheltering him from the mob . 
through her relationship with the duke , she seeks a passport for this one activist's escape . 
grace doesn't even understand her own actions ( and the duke reacts in stunned disbelief at how she places herself in such danger ) . 
she endures persecution from robespierre and his gang of thuggish equalizers , ceaseless police monitoring , house searches , even a brief imprisonment for harmless international correspondence . 
maintaining her stiff upper lip and pampered life ( her imperious attitude to the servants never changes ) , she becomes a heroine through circumstance . 
the events themselves are intrusions upon her person , her home , and therefore her values . 
aristocracy proves a glass house , one that can barely withstand the upheaval of stones . 
the duke is called to vote on the king's punishment , and despite his hours of deliberation with friends and advisors , talk means nothing in the face of bloody action ( or futile inaction ) . 
the episodic structure creates a wobbly , jarring detachment from the events of the french revolution , which serves as metaphor but also disconnects potential audience identification . 
lazy viewers ( and critics ) may also complain that knowledge of french history is required for enjoyment of the lady and the duke . 
that's foolery , but brings up the valid criticism that rohmer's characters occasionally become didactic . 
rohmer's imperfect but assured push toward the future remains staunch and notable for casting a cautious eye upon the past while taking bold steps forward into an uncertain future . 
what may arouse interest in the lady and the duke outside of foreign film enthusiasts with literary and historical passions is rohmer's use of cutting edge digital technology as a means of exploring the theme of artifice as safety net or coping mechanism . 
the actors were filmed against a bluescreen , then placed against painted backdrops recreating the vastness of 18th century paris . 
this recreation calls attention to itself in every shot , a technicolor dream of fanciful buildings and wide-open streets . 
it looks as phony as titanic , but unlike james cameron's debacle , the lady and the duke plays with the notion of false security in those walls of stone . 
why ? 
they aren't real . 
the very foundation rohmer's characters stand upon is false , and in their groundlessness they must discover themselves , in all their insubstantial glory . 
screened at the 2001 new york film festival ( feature coming soon ) . 

there must be some unwritten rule that states , one gets enlightenment not in the way one expects to get enlightenment but in the commitment given to seeking wisdom , even if it is a foolish road one is on and it seems to be leading nowhere . 
in the exotic morocco of 1972 , a 25-year-old english hippie mother , julia ( winslet ) , of two sweet young girls , the 6-year-old lucy ( carrie ) and the 8-year-old bea ( bella ) , has arrived for a year's stay , with the self-absorbed mother oblivious to how her daughters might be adjusting to this foreign experience while she is searching for a change of life from her unfaithful poet husband ( she is not officially married to him ) and her cold one-room london flat , and is sort of looking for the eternal truth in the sunny climate of marrakech . 
at least she says she is , as she is making some attempt to contact a sufi sheikh there who has all the answers . 
she has not planned things out too carefully , having no money , and the trip doesn't seem like it's much fun , more like a misadventure , with some romance with a local moroccan thrown in . 
drugs , a world-wide youthful phenomena during this period , where many westerners came to morocco to smoke the good hashish found there and to live the 'good life' cheaply , and to be in a spot where they did not have to worry about being hassled by the local authorities , even though drugs are illegal there . 
but this is not shown as one of her reasons for being here . 
in this film , the subject of drugs is never broached , only hinted at in an off-handed but slurring way , as the hippie commune is shown in a negative light , strumming on their guitars and bragging about the hits of acid they have taken . 
even the ones coming here for spiritual reasons , to follow the mystical sufis , seem lost following a culture that is far different from where they were coming from . 
the film is based on the novel that contained the autobiographical experiences of sigmund freud's grand-daughter , esther freud , who traveled here in the 1960s with her mother and sister . 
it is written by the director's brother , who has previously directed regeneration , the playboys , and trojan eddie . 
the title of the film comes from the squealing giggles that saying hideous kinky gives the little girls . 
with julia strapped for cash and not receiving a needed check her husband often forgets to send her , she is prevented from seeing the greatest living sufi who is located in algeria ; so instead , she meets an acrobat street performer in the bazaar , bilal ( said taghmaoui ) . 
he becomes her lover , taking the place of her husband as a father figure for the girls . 
the girls readily accept him , and there is no big-to-do made about their openly sexual relationship , but the girls really don't know what to make of the relationship . 
it especially bothers bea , who is embarrassed by her mother's loose attitude and wants to go home . 
things go surprisingly sour when bilal takes them to stay in his small village . 
it seems only that bilal's charm is matched by his shiftlessness , as he has a wife who still lives there . 
this scene didn't make too much sense as to why he would take them there knowing the situation , unless the uneducated man was totally uneducated in the customs of his people , also . 
but i doubt that . 
the family is now stuck without money in a backward area trying to decide what to do next , as they hitch a ride away from there with a truck driver who nearly kills them when he falls asleep by the wheel . 
lucy takes it all in stride and has a good disposition for travel , while bea just wants to go to a school and learn something and be a 'normal' girl . 
the beauty of marrakech is matched by the terrific performance of kate winslet , as the film accurately encapsulates the timeless city and its bustling street scenes , expansive views , illustrious mosques , and grand sunsets . 
kate enacts the feel of what it was like to be a westerner , living out the countercultural experiences while awaiting to gather her sensibilities again and was fortunate enough to be able to go home the better off for her experiences , as many a drop-out reluctantly had to do after their stay ran out of money and purpose . 
the background music from groups like america and jefferson airplane , provided further nostalgia for this easy to look at and easy to grasp film . 
the only hope was that the two innocent girls would not be permanently harmed while on this sojourn , a venture that should be reserved only for those of college age or older who choose to go there for themselves . 
the family's travel , which is on the edge , has julia waking up screaming from dreams that are bleakly haunting ; but , when she gets up , all there is , is this splendid emptiness all around her and a vacuous life that is starting to bother her . 
that marrakech is disarmingly gorgeous and that london is old hat to her , is starting to wear thin in her thoughts . 
it will dawn on her , when bea takes ill , as she reflects on what the sufi guru tells her , whom she finally meets and is driven to tears in his presence . 
he is the guru who replaced the one she wanted to see but who died before she got a chance to see him . 
the new guru is grounded in reality , something she is not grounded in , and seems to tell her what she couldn't comprehend from anyone else , even comforting her , by telling her that her tears are memories- a gift from god . 
the film's weakness was the empty feeling i got from watching the story unfold in its risk free tenor ( she was there basically to be just escaping from her situation ) and how unappealing the love affair seemed between bilal and julia . 
the storyline about a helpless single parent , detracted from the vibrant experiences many others of her same baby-boom generation had during their trip to morocco , who were taken in by the mystical culture of sufism , a teaching that has a lot to offer its followers , contrary to the impression the film might give , seemed to pass her by . 
her knowledge of that trip is only surface deep , at best . 
she perhaps would have been better off not taking the kids along , smoking some hashish , and have been less assured of herself but to have behaved more like a hippie and she wouldn't have been so uptight all the time and had some fun on her journey . 
after all , the mystical trip is the journey . 
the film's strength is in how all the characters are shown for what they are , and no one is that good or that bad , or judged too harshly for their shortcomings . 
bilal is unreliable but is capable of generosity . 
the little girls are precocious but they are lovable . 
julia , the cornerstone the film is built on , is a mother who cares about the children but doesn't know how to take care of them without unintentionally harming them . 
she was trying to escape from reality and that by returning to london , she has another chance to see if she can find the key to this world or whatever world she is looking for and should no longer have nightmares about where she's at . 
this is a very freudian way to look at things , as this sudden realization , that things are not right puts an an end to her eastern hippie odyssey , at least , for the time being . 
and , after all is said and done , who's to say if the children are also not better off for surviving their experiences , just like she probably was ! 

if chris farley had strapped some fake mutton-chop sideburns to each side of his head , spoken with a thick irish accent , and tried his damnedest to play it straight , he wouldn't have been nearly as funny as brendan gleeson in " i went down . " 
gleeson , who's not dissimilar to the late " saturday night live " alumnus in terms of physical attributes , plays a character named bunny kelly in this delightful irish film . 
bunny is sent to county cork to " retrieve " one frank grogan for an irish gangster called tom french ( well dressed like all good gangsters should be and menacingly portrayed by tony doyle ) . 
bunny is to accompany git hynes ( peter mcdonald ) , recently released from prison and obligated to tom for disfiguring one of his cronies . 
that tom french is a mean bollocks . 
he wants frank back . 
and a small matter of some ? 25 , 000 that tom's wife was supposed to have given to frank . 
for this he won't break anyone's thumbs . 
maybe . 
inventively and engagingly written by conor mcpherson and directed by paddy breathnach , " i went down " follows the trials and tribulations of git and bunny as they knock around peat bogs , dimly-lit pubs , and seedy hostelries trying to stay alive and out of trouble . 
mcdonald is a newcomer and a promising one at that , but gleeson has been in over a dozen movies , most recently as father bubbles in another film with a very irish accent on hilarity , " the butcher boy . " 
even if you can't comprehend half of what they're saying , gleeson and mcdonald together make " i went down " a trip worth taking . 
the film is in many ways reminiscent of another " little " independent feature , 1991's " highway 61 . " 
that film , too , was a road movie and it shares the same kind of wry dialogue and humorous situations as mcpherson's tale : whimsical observations on life , carefully-crafted vignettes , deadpan conversational asides , and scenes that'll make you laugh out loud . 
witness the episode in which our good-natured protagonists bind frank ( played by peter caffrey ) to a hotel bed , leaving him with only the tv remote for company . 
that sequence alone is on a par with satan locking himself out of his car in " highway 61 . " 
what's also charming about " i went down " is how the relationship between buddy and git develops . 
their trip becomes an education for both of them , but the way it's handled is neither sappy nor labored . 
the only thing in the film which approaches clunkiness is the culminating explanation , via flashbacks , of the relationship between frank and tom . 
it's a little too hollywood , and what makes " i went down " so refreshing is the fact that it rarely panders to traditional conventions of hollywood gangster movies . 
sure it's gritty--make that grubby--but it's also pretty goofy . 
although " i went down " emphasizes the comedic elements of dis-organized crime , there are a couple of fairly brutal scenes in keeping with the subject matter . 
don't let these deter you , though ; " i went down " is a little gem . 
it's only playing at one philadelphia-area theater--and i suspect it won't be there for long--so catch it while you can . 

damn those trailers . 
had it not been for the advertising of this film , which reveals far too much about its contents , i would have been glued to `under the sand' . 
as it is , the film retains some value , thanks to an excellent performance by charlotte rampling , and a more mature francois ozon in the director's chair . 
marie ( charlotte rampling ) and her husband jean ( bruno cremer ) lounge on the beach . 
she takes a nap while he goes for a swim . 
when marie wakes up , jean is nowhere to be found . 
she contacts authorities , but they can't find him either . 
did he disappear to start a new life ? 
was he killed by accident ? 
did he commit suicide ? 
marie still asks herself these questions a year later , and in order to move on with her life , she must find some answers . 
it's a fine premise , and this little movie uses it to the limit . 
the film moves at a leisurely pace , a bit slow , but relaxing . 
it's a very visual story , and you can pretty much just sit back without reading the subtitles . 
this is mostly thanks to the excellent camera work by antoine heberle and jeanne lapoirie , who shot the film in a dreamy haze , and the lead performance by rampling . 
rampling is so expressive in her portrayal of marie , you connect with her character instantly , despite that she's delusional . 
the scenes where she interacts with her husband , who she still believes is alive , are heartbreaking . 
she can't quite get over him . 
they've been married for twenty-five years . 
the other actors , particularly jacques nolot , are excellent too . 
the sex in the film is rather unneeded , but compared to ozon's `criminal lovers' , it's the disney channel . 
likely to cause some discussion afterwards , `under the sand' is a fine movie going experience . 
while it's hard to recommend as entertainment , it's a fine adult alternative about how we deal with loss . 
ozon seems to ask what you would do , and that's certainly a hard question to answer . 

_dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential . 
mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs . 
but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . " 
so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc . 
this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit . 
in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie . 
so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a 
heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise . 
not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort . 
there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them . 
and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) . 
but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ? 
the answer is a resounding no . 
it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy . 
he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence . 
he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) . 
still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has . 
the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance . 
saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time . 
the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement . 
come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ . 

call " hush " " stop or my mom will kill . " 
or " mommy fearest . " 
or " the hand that robs the cradle . " 
call it whatever you want , but certainly don't see it unless you're in desperate need of a bad movie-induced chuckle -- " hush " scores so many unintentional guffaws that it almost qualifies as a guilty pleasure . 
chalk its losses up to frequent stupidity lapses and apparent post-production tinkering ( it was supposed to open about a year ago ) , the latter of which appears to have given " hush " a send-off that's downright infuriating . 
it's too bad that " hush " is so laughable , because the on-screen talent -- including the pairing of gwyneth paltrow and jessica lange -- is nothing to laugh at . 
paltrow and johnathon schaech play helen and jackson , a photogenic new york couple on their way to spend christmas vacation at his wealthy , well-to-do family's horse farm/estate kilronan . 
jackson's mother martha ( lange ) runs kilronan all by herself , and her genteel southern hospitality makes helen feel welcome immediately -- even if her first meeting with martha takes place while helen is in the altogether , caught red-handed after a bedroom romp with her husband-to-be . 
but it seems that martha's friendly smile masks a much more threatening demeanor ; she's what you'd call someone who loves too much . 
martha eagerly , deviously wants a grandchild , and then helen will be expendable , as far as she's concerned . 
if there's one reason to catch " hush , " it's lange . 
she treats the pedestrian screenplay better than it deserves to be treated , injecting martha ( poorly written though she may be ) with a little empathy to level out the psycho-playing field . 
when she delves into martha's dark side , predictable cliches -- chain-smoking , staring in mirrors , praying in a confessional to a priest who isn't there , poking a hole in helen's diaphragm so she'll become pregnant ( and she does ) -- abound , but it's moderately entertaining junk because lange is such an interesting actress to watch . 
veteran performer nina foch is smart and tart as jackson's wheelchair-bound paternal grandmother . 
the rest of the cast looks ill and uncomfortable , especially paltrow . 
but can you really blame them ? 
the character relationships in " hush " hold a certain amount of promise , at least until their psychological impact is blown out of the water by sheer stupidity . 
idiotic situations ( martha yells at a nearby horse so it will bolt up and knock helen over ) compliment idiotic dialogue ( " why did you yell ? " 
helen yells back at martha ) , and the film takes the form of one of the shoddier fill in the blank-from-hell flicks ever made . 
you can see through a great deal of martha's actions and lies from their conception ; why do people who have known this woman for years longer than we have never figure things out ? 
does nobody communicate or read the newspaper in this town ? 
if any of her potential victims thought , acted or behaved like normal people , " hush " would be a really short movie . 
and then there's the climax and ending , which abruptly come when helen starts having contractions after eating some pound cake spiked with a labor-inducing drug normally used on horses . 
after a really weird chase scene , martha calmly knits in a rocking chair while forcing helen to give birth in a bed all by herself . 
i won't spoil what happens next except to say that it's contradictory , illogical and ( probably , since i'm no doctor ) medically impossible . 
the final scene offers no closure , no resolution , no confrontation whatsoever . 
it's just there , dangling amidst silent displeasure . 
no one should like this ending , regardless of their feelings on the preceding material . 
perhaps " hush " 's title is a plea to silence its audience's likely bitter word of mouth while exiting the theater . 

well , what are you going to expect ? 
it's a movie about a big snake that eats people . 
that's what i should have been thinking when i viewed this film , because maybe then i would have enjoyed myself more . 
instead , i ended up wishing a giant snake would come along and eat me , too . 
anaconda is about a documentary film crew sailing down a south american river . 
led by anthropologists dr . steven cale ( eric stolz ) and terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , the crew is attempting to locate a lost tribe of natives . 
along the way , they find poacher paul sarone ( jon voight ) , and become unwillingly embroiled in his quest to capture the elusive anaconda . 
to simply say that this is the world's largest snake wouldn't be doing it justice , since the anaconda in this movie is at least two feet wide . 
if this isn't a good reason to avoid picking up hitchhikers , i don't know what is . 
at the beginning of anaconda , we find that flores and cale have had some kind of relationship in the past , but that seems to be more or less over now . 
i expected that fact to play a key part somewhere down the line , but it ended up being a set-up for nothing . 
cale chokes on a deadly wasp ( don't ask me how that happens - i don't know ) and is put out of action , relegated to being the person whom the rest of the film crew must get back to civilization for medical help . 
this minimally helps to add a sense of urgency for the plot , since this goal now comes in direct conflict with sarone's plan to capture the snake . 
however , this is negated by the fact that cale seems to get better by himself about halfway through the film , and in any event still results in zero payoff from the relationship angle . 
most bad characters are either annoying or stupid . 
in this movie , they're both . 
since this description applies to all the characters except sarone , it's hard to find someone to root for . 
you're supposed to back the good guys , but you really end up cheering for sarone because he's smarter than everyone else . 
or maybe he's just not as dumb as everyone else . 
at times , i almost found myself rooting for the snake . 
there are no standout performances here . 
everyone seems to be reciting lines written for stock characters . 
even voight appears to be doing his best impression of christopher walken for some reason . 
no matter , as in most monster movies , the snake is supposed to be the real star anyway . 
in most of the scenes , the snake is computer generated , and the effects crew did a decent job of making it look real . 
however , the realism is thrown off by some pretty unrealistic occurrences . 
sometimes , for example , the snake just moves too fast . 
it catches a guy jumping off of a waterfall , for crying out loud . 
then there's another scene where the snake eats one of the characters , and we see the snake's skin drawn so tightly over its prey that we can see the victim's pained expression from within the snake's belly . 
absolutely ridiculous . 
a testimony to the film's bad direction is the inclusion of a scene early on the in the film , where we get to see just how dangerous the mighty anaconda is . 
in a scene totally unrelated to anything else , we are witness to the big snake winning a showdown with a panther . 
the anaconda wraps itself around the powerful feline as if it were a stuffed animal and squeezes it so hard , one of the panther's eyeballs pops out . 
eeeewwwww . 
above and beyond the sick factor , however , this scene surprised me because it actually showed the face of the snake before a quarter of the movie had even passed . 
in films like these , a sense of mystery surrounding the monster must be maintained . 
if the characters are reacting to something they fear more than see , we as an audience must experience that feeling along with them . 
to show us the monster early on is to let us in on something the characters don't know about , and therefore allow us to get used to the danger before the pivotal moment when man and beast have their climactic showdown . 
in a case like that , the showdown just ends up being a letdown . 
when i saw the snake for the first time , i decided to give the film the benefit of the doubt and assume that the snake i saw wasn't the real danger . 
this one was just a decoy , and there was actually a bigger snake waiting to make its appearance just when everyone thought they were safe . 
no such luck . 
okay , maybe anaconda is actually a decoy , and there's really a better movie waiting to make its debut . 

let me begin by saying that this is easily the worst movie in the entire official ( and even unofficial ) james bond series . 
it is so full of self-parody and silly characters that you would almost believe you were watching a spoof . 
an omen of what is to come is provided by the pre-credits sequence , a dull affair featuring a confrontation between a man ( it's difficult to give a better description since no mention of him is made elsewhere in the movie ) and the assassin of the title . 
a song with woefully terrible lyrics follows , and the rest of the movie is even worse . 
the plot might have been a pleasant change from the usual rule-the-world so often found in the james bond movies of the 70s , but here we get a confused mismash about a fabled assassin , francisco scaramanga ( christopher lee , putting in a performance which is one of the rare saving graces of this movie ) who someone has apparently payed one million dollars to in order to remove roger moore's 007 . 
there is also a flimsy connection with the energy crisis and a missing solar cell with 95% efficiency . 
it's as much of a mess as it sounds . 
bond is " helped " in his task by mary goodnight ( ekland ) , whose character couldn't possibly be any closer to the stereotypical bimbo . 
during the course of the movie she gets locked in both a closet and a car trunk , blunders around a control room accidentally setting off a laser and serves no purpose in enhancing the plot whatsoever . 
maud adams ( later to star in octopussy ) is a much more stronger and useful character , but she hardly features in the movie . 
scaramanga's lackey is a dwarf called nik-nak , who rather fittingly is also possibly the silliest henchman in the series , serving up annoyance and weak dialogue in equal measures . 
worse still is an almost total lack of action throughout the whole movie . 
there is but one fight sequence about fifteen minutes in ( not counting a ludicrous scene where two teenage girls beat up several dozen trained martial artists -- another misguided attempt at humour ) . 
the solitary car chase might have been a highlight , but the " action " is interrupted on a frequent basis by a redneck sheriff ( j . w . 
pepper , played by clifton james of live and let die " fame " ) yelling stupid comments out of the passenger window . 
he is easily the most irritating character in a james bond movie . 
even his presence could have been made bearable by one of the most impressive car stunts in cinematic history , a 360 degree twisting loop jump over a broken bridge -- could have been , except somebody got the idea to dub a mocking whistle tone over the final print . 
on top of that debacle , the whole end of the film is an anticlimatic sequence in scaramanga's " funhouse " . 
the only good thing that came out of this movie was that the producers had to make the next film in the series ( the infinitely superior " the spy who loved me " ) a great film in order for the bond franchise to survive . 

 " showgirls " is the first big-budget , big-studio film to receive an nc-17 rating . 
and its release last year came at a time when senator bob dole and other politicans chastised the entertainment industry for promoting sex and violence . 
but if " showgirls " is any indication of hollywood's future , the folks in washington should focus their attack on a more dangerous threat to american values--bad moviemaking . 
 " showgirls " is a relentlessly exploitive look at the las vegas strip scene , and the film turns out to be just as trashy as its subject matter . 
director paul verhoeven and writer joe eszterhas , who collaborated on another shock-value project , 1992's " basic instinct , " follow the plight of a young woman ( teen tv star elizabeth berkley ) determined to make a name for herself as a topless dancer . 
it's a hackneyed premise to begin with , so not surprisingly , all of the stock characters are trucked out . 
there's the demanding producer . 
the loyal friend . 
the bitchy competitor . 
lest i forget the scummy club owner . 
of course , any attempt at character development or a coherent storyline is just window dressing for the film's main attraction--an endless parade of full-frontal nudity . 
unfortunately , " showgirls " doesn't satisfy in this department . 
verhoeven's slam-bang , in-your-face style of direction proves neither arousing nor erotic . 
to make matters worse , you'll be forced to sit through the movie's clothed scenes , which don't cover up for laughable acting and some of the most absurd dialogue ever spoken in film history . 
verhoeven and ezsterhas deserve credit for trying to break ground , but if it's adult entertainment you want , stay home and watch the playboy channel . 
you'll be the wiser for it . 

shakespeare . you hardly understood it in high school . 
why would you want more of it now that your english grade doesn't count on it ? 
if this is your attitude , then i'll say right off the bat that kenneth branagh's hamlet is probably not for you , and you might as well stop reading right now . 
if , however , you are a lover of the bard , or at the very least are open-minded about a challenging script , read on , for there is something rotten in the state of denmark . 
namely , the king has died , and his widow the queen has wed the king's brother , claudius , but prince hamlet suspects foul play . 
his suspicions are confirmed when the ghost of his father appears and relates the story of his murder at his own brother's hands . 
hamlet , enlisting the help of his friend horatio , conspires to capture the conscience of the new king to expose his treachery . . . . and 
the game is afoot . . . . 
the first things you notice about this production are the sets and costumes . 
with external scenes filmed at blemheim palace in england ( also the one of the sites for the recent the avengers ) , the grandiose quality of the setting is immediately established . 
interior scenes are similarly graced with intricate and flamboyant rooms and chambers . 
the hamlet castle's grand throne room is an impressive piece of work incorporating high ceilings , mirror-panel doors , and bridges which connect opposite sides of a second-story loft . 
costuming is equally grand , drawing upon both history and imagination . . 
not quite the denmark of the 1600's , the characters' attire is something of a cross between that era and turn of the century russia , very effectively giving the film more of a timeless feel . 
it is not surprising that tim harvey and alexandra byrne were nominated for best art direction and best costume design oscars , respectively . 
in addition to directing , kenneth branagh also plays the title character . 
as the revenge-driven royal heir , branagh provides a riveting performance of emotional highs and lows . 
from the anticipation of seeing his father's ghost , to the melancholy of finding the burial site of his childhood jester , to his eventual wrath , branagh delivers in spades . 
every scene truly revolves around hamlet , as much a tribute to branagh's acting and directing as to shakespeare's manuscript . 
hamlet seems to be a who's who of shakespearean-trained actors , so watching them perform the craft for which they have much love is a delight in itself . 
julie christie , as hamlet's mother gertrude , and derek jacobi as his murderous uncle claudius both fill the classic roles superbly , as do many of the supporting players . 
kate winslet as hamlet's lover ophelia , does an outstanding job demonstrating the character's plummet to the depths of dispair and madness . 
richard briers as ophelia's father , polonius , and michael moloney as her brother , laertes , are equally convincing . 
nicholas farrell as hamlet's trusted friend horatio , and timothy spall and reece dinsdale as the two-timing rosencrantz and guildenstern round out the excellent core cast . 
hamlet also seems to be a film in which someone tried to stuff as many well known actors as possible . 
in some cases , this made for interesting scenes . 
billy crystal is surprisingly good as the gravedigger who unearths the skull of yorick , whom hamlet knew quite well . 
crystal proves himself able to deliver the lines with both the timing of a classic actor and the verbal countenance of a comedian , and the result is a very funny scene . 
however , charleton heston , whom many might think would butcher shakespeare , is the biggest surprise of all . 
as the player king , the leader of a troupe of traveling actors , he is absolutely breathtaking when narrating the story of priam and hecuba . 
part of his monologue is overlaid with a visual enactment of the story ( with sir john gielgud and judi dench ) , but this is most unfortunate , for it robs heston of some of the attention which he deserves at this time . 
his off-camera speaking , while gripping , sort of downplays the scene to a narration done by any other well-voiced actor . 
i wish branagh had chosen to allow us to envision in our own minds the scene which heston lays out , and let the venerable actor have the attention . 
unfortunately , there were some casting choices which led to poor distractions . 
jack lemmon , an excellent actor , just can't do shakespeare . 
as marcellus , the guard who sees the elder hamlet's ghost , lemmon sadly underperforms and is shown up left and right by those around him . 
gerard depardieu , another talented actor , is wasted when given little more than the utterances of " yes , my lord " and " no , my lord " in the role of reynaldo . 
richard attenborough has a ( literally ) walk-on role , showing up at the eleventh hour as the english ambassador . 
i think he had two lines . 
then there is rufus sewell as fortinbras of norway . 
when i went to see dangerous beauty earlier this year , two ladies behind me kept commenting about how handsome he was . 
if bulging eyes are your idea of handsome , well i guess comic actor marty feldman was some kind of sex symbol to you . 
hamlet is a complicated tale of treachery and revenge in which triumph and defeat become one . 
branagh attempts to help us out with some of the intricacies by visually representing some of the more elusive stretches of dialogue by presenting them as flashback-type images . 
this only works about half the time , and i wonder if it would have been just as well to do without them . 
you don't have to be some kind of genius to appreciate shakespeare , but it is quite difficult to understand unless you have the time to read or hear it carefully and repeatedly . 
the alternate method of comprehension is that with which most of us are familiar , the high school english course . 
in it , you are hopefully fortunate enough to have an educator willing to help you with the plot points and nuances essential to understanding a play written in the rigmarole known as the king's english . 
or i suppose you could just read the cliff notes . 

attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone . 
should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic . 
the film will work just as well as a silent movie . 
chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing . 
first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth . 
there isn't one of these characters worth caring about . 
the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . " 
among others , the movie features : ben affleck , casey affleck , david chappelle , janeane garofalo , gaby hoffmann , catherine kellner , courtney love , jay mohr , martha plimpton , christina ricci and paul rudd . 
and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say . 
it's new year's eve in 1981 , and monica ( martha plimpton ) is preparing her big party . 
structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars . 
monica's apartment is in " noho , " an area that one of the guests describes as " so cool , all of the poor people live there . " 
typical of the shallow couples in the movie are kevin ( paul rudd ) and his friend and would-be sexual partner lucy ( courtney love ) . 
they argue about whether lucy is a slut or not since she sleeps with everyone , except him , of course . 
she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story . 
the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday . 
 " cigarettes are a shield against emotional interaction with other people , " kevin later tells lucy in a snippet of dialog that sounds profound only outside the context of the movie . 
another character , played by jay mohr , has a problem with his sexual triumphs . 
every woman he beds falls deeply in love with him by the next morning . 
when his latest conquest tells him of her affection for him , his response is " i like a lot of people . " 
as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds . 
some have passed out early from alcohol abuse and remember little , while others actually have some clue as to what happened . 
the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie . 
200 cigarettes runs 1 : 40 . 
it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 

in brief : best bleak comedy film since heathers . 
full of wonderful swipes at the fifteen minutes of fame mentality that feeds so much of modern american pop culture . 
go see it ! 
so , i prepared for this film by watching a moving interview on " hard copy " with pam smart , the new hampshire media teacher who was convicted of engineering the death of her husband back in the 1980's . 
 " hard copy " 's diane diamond asked smart what she thought about nicole kidman's fictionalized portrayal of her in the new film to die for . 
smart replied that she thought kidman's character came off as a dumb , vicious tramp and she thought that the publicity the new movie generates might just hurt her chances in her latest court appeal . 
 ( smart was convicted and given a life sentence for her part in the murder of her husband . ) 
smart's got a point . 
it wouldn't be the first time that the public took the better scripted and well-acted movie version of an event as the absolute truth over the duller and far less artistic real life version . 
however , given a choice between the mass media 'happening' of the real event and the fictionalized movie , i would definitely opt for the later . 
real murderers rarely have dialogue as witty as what buck henry has written for this movie and smart , while pretty and alluring , is no match for the cinematic charms of nicole kidman . 
to die for begins in a town called little hope , new hampshire , the archetypal dry and intellectually barren american suburb . 
the story concerns the ambitious suzanne stone and how she tackles the obstacles between her and her life long ambition of being 'on tv . ' 
of course , one of those little obstacles turns out to be her dull and unambitious husband larry , played by matt dillon . 
but , with a little imagination , some charm and raw sex appeal and a rather novel approach to junior achievement , our heroine manages to overcome the nay-sayers in her life , at least temporarily . 
kidman triumphs in the trashy role of suzanne . 
i have never really been all that fond of this actress but she shows a wonderful flair for comedy in this picture . 
her portrayal of the incredibly shallow and dumb femme fatale resonates . 
kidman knows a star-making role when she sees it and she plays the conscience-deprived suzanne as the ultimate career driven , post-feminist uber-temptress from hell . 
she is ably abetted by wonderfully demented comic dialogue , which kidman delivers in a unselfconsciously funny way . 
at one point suzanne is expounding on her knowledge of world events to her future husband and sister-in-law . 
 " you know , " she knowingly exclaims , " gorbachev would still be the leader of russia or whatever , if he had just had that ugly purplish thing removed from his head . " 
her husband beams at suzanne's profound knowledge of world politics and then proudly proclaims that this qualifies her to be the next barbara walters . 
this is very close to pop culture bashing heaven , folks . 
the other standout performance in the film is delivered by joaquin phoenix . 
he plays jimmy , a burned out teenager who becomes addicted to suzanne's sexual favors . 
kidman's character , vapid though she is , is a sort of suave beacon of success to jimmy and his lost friends russell and lydia , winningly portrayed by casey affleck and alison folland . 
phoenix looks like the very embodiment of gen-x slackerhood ( as envisioned by tabloid tv , of course ) . 
his jimmy has the dead eyes and demeanor of a kid who knows that he ain't going anywhere , ever . 
phoenix reacts to the sexy suzanne with a sort of obsessed amazement and he makes us believe that a loser character like jimmy really would be willing to kill for someone like suzanne , someone who actually noticed him . 
gus van sant ( drugstore cowboy , my own private idaho ) direction is first-rate . 
he keeps the pacing in this not-quite-thriller snapping along . 
van sant rightly keeps the focus of this movie on the amoral suzanne and doesn't stop to proselytize the audience about the rightness or wrongness of her actions . 
van sant trusts his material and trusts his audience to 'get it' without stopping to explain what is funny about this all-american story . 
the screenplay , by buck henry , is absolutely great and includes some of the best bleakly comic lines i've heard since heathers . 
henry's story is a blast against the shallowness of the american media and the mindlessness of fame , yet the screenplay delivers this sharp message by focusing on just a few characters . 
henry ably manages to avoid diluting his story by aiming at too many targets and the result is a crisp and funny mini-classic . 
danny elfman did the original music for this movie and he delivers another eccentric , loopy score that strongly echoes his themes for edward scissorhands . 
either film score would make wonderful background music for halloween trick-or-treat parties . 
all-in-all , a wonderful production , well worth your seven bucks ! 
to die for : a columbia pictures release directed by gus van sant . 
written by buck henry score by danny elfman starring nicole kidman , matt dillon , joachin phoenix based on the book by joyce maynard . 
rated r - for language and mature themes . 
 ( respect the r , not for under 14's ) rating ----- stars . 
go see it . 

note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
 " all the world's a stage and all the men and women merely players they have their exits and their entrances and one man in his time plays many parts " - excerpt from as you like it , act ii , scene 7 
when william shakespeare penned this passage , he could not have possibly envisioned a world in which the domestic activites in an abode would be broadcast across the continent , or where women would install webcams in their apartments in order to convert voyeurism into cash . 
this is the world of today , and it is the perfect climate to unveil a prototypical high-concept project like the truman show . 
truman burbank ( jim carrey ) seems to have the perfect life . 
he has a pretty , doting wife meryl ( laura linney ) , a comfortable insurance sales position , an immaculate suburban home in the idyllic island community of seahaven , a reliable childhood buddy marlon ( noah emmerich ) -- except for the dog that paws a greeting to him every morning and his hydrophobia , this is paradise . 
or so it would seem . 
bizarre , inexplicable incidents begin to crop up in truman's life . 
a lighting fixture unexpectedly plummets from the sky . 
a rainstorm which gives new meaning to the term 'isolated' follows him around . 
a radio broadcast appears to be describing his every move . 
for the first time in his life , it is beginning to dawn on truman that things are not what they appear to be . 
the truman show , directed by peter weir and written by andrew niccol , is a remarkably well-constructed film , paced perfectly with every scene fluidly leading into the next . 
balancing drama with humour , thoughtfulness with abandon , this is a film which addresses an intriguing and intricate concept with just the right mixture of sermonizing and whimsical fancy . 
in many ways , mr . niccol's screenplay mirrors the spirit of his previous gattaca -- both films focus on the theme of triumph of the human spirit over oppressive adversity , with pivotal , character-defining moments occurring at sea . 
although the film's rather conventional climax doesn't sustain the inspired dynamic achieved in the first two-thirds , and ultimately just falls short on delivering the intended emotional punch , there are moments through the truman show which are genuinely stirring and moving as truman attempts to make sense of his unraveling world and grasp the implications behind his discoveries of deception . 
despite the multitude of pertinent issues being broached by the film , it remains foremost a finely-crafted piece of entertainment , constantly light and accessible . 
the tone achieved is far too sunny for any sense of fearful paranoia to legitimately intrude , and as the carefully-stacked seahaven house of cards tumbles down , the film eschews any psychological ramifications for a man discovering that the fundamentals of his entire existence have been false . 
the end act of the truman show essentially boils down to a rehash of the reliable , crowdpleasing underdog vs . 
the system formula . 
while the film is an impressive realisation of an inspired concept , some elements are lacking . 
the device of mysterious lauren/sylvia ( natascha mcelhone ) as a contributing impetus to truman's growing awareness isn't exactly convincing . 
there's not much of a discernable spark between either the two characters or the actors themselves , and the scenes in which she indignantly confronts the megalomaniac christoff ( ed harris ) with regards to the moral ambiguity of his actions unnecessarily spells things out for the audience , thankfully avoided elsewhere in the film . 
in fact , although the film smartly restricts the number of scenes depicting the real world outside truman's artificial utopia to a mere handful of select reaction shots from enraptured gazers , it might have perhaps been even more indicting and damning to immerse itself even * more * deeply in the insulatory seahaven world , with the resultant effect that the repercussions felt as the film finally shifts outside the imposed bubble are all the more startling . 
still , the scathing commentary issued by this film is on target , and its insidiously oblique manner of delivery is far more effective in conveying the message than the more forthright anti-voyeuristic tirades such as that of the recent costa gavras film mad city . 
i've always believed that the versatile ms . linney possesses a tremendous comic gift -- she has always seems to have a impish gleam in her eyes -- and in the truman show she runs rampant with her duplicitous character , mischievously flashing a glazed , insanely jovial grin as she perkily recites impromptu product placement slogans . 
cheerfully going over the top , it's hilarious to watch her -- who would have ever guessed that she'd have the opportunity to outshine the reigning king of comedy in the laughs department of a film ? 
ms . linney is a delight in the film . 
but it is mr . carrey who rules the show here . 
he may not have been intuitively the most obvious choice to portray underdog hero truman burbank -- the role is seriously lacking in any of the frenetic comic interludes which typify his traditional parts -- but he brings to the character tremendous energy and eminent appeal : it's difficult not to root for truman . 
in a commanding performance , mr . carrey lends our protagonist an inherent sense of decency and integrity which makes him a genuinely engaging presence , and acquits himself impressively in this dramatic turn , demonstrating admirable restraint -- there's an early scene where he's down on his knees gardening , and given his past track record , one almost instinctively anticipates mr . carrey to pull one of more infamous , and in this case , wholly inappropriate sight gags . 
it's almost poetic how this notorious look-at-me actor successfully tones it down to play a character who's constantly the centre of attention . 
in addition to the fine performances by the bulk of the cast -- mr . emmerich is particularly noteworthy for issuing his character a sense of sturdy trustworthiness -- the film is immeasurably aided by wonderful production design by dennis gassner in creating truman's antiseptic , white picket-fenced smalltown utopia , and by burkhard dallwitz's original score . 
technical credits are first-rate all around . 
while the truman show is clearly a definitive high-concept film , it's not exactly a dazzlingly innovative one -- obvious predecessors utilising common elements abound , ranging from 1965's secret agent through to the groundbreaking british 1967 tv series the prisoner . 
all the same , this is a visionary , award-calibre film : entertaining , provocative , and intelligent . 
the curious ( and possibly disturbing ) thing may be that although upon first glance the plausibility of the film's concept seems unfathomably outrageous , it's abundantly clear that our society is rapidly approaching , if not actualisation , at least permissiveness of such a scenario . 
perhaps the highest compliment which can be paid to mr . weir is that his depiction of this bizarro state is so convincing that we accept it without question . 
perhaps we recognize a bit of ourselves in this world . 

the premise of this movie is , well , pretty far-fetched . 
tom berenger plays shale , a mercenary who is temporarily out of work ( those fools at the cia have denied his existence just because he and his buddies botched a job in cuba ) . 
fortunately , his girl friend ( diane venora ) , a teacher at christopher columbus high school in miami , gets her knee cap broken by a disgruntled student , creating a job opening for shale as a substitute teacher . 
not telling his girl friend , who might object on pedagogical grounds , he creates a number of fake higher degrees for himself ( from yale , harvard , princeton , et al ) and begins his tenure as a high school teacher . 
the students ( junkies , drug dealers , gang members , sleazy sluts , ice-pick wielders . . . you 
get the picture ) don't really take to him right away , so he hits one in the face with a can and breaks a few fingers . 
this gets their attention to a certain extent , so he tells them the story of the vietnam war : " see , some homeboys from the north tried to muscle in on the turf of the homeboys from the south . " 
oh yeah , now they can dig it ; the problem is just that nobody ever explained it properly before . 
but wait ! 
there are drugs being dealt in the school itself ! 
and behind the whole scheme , in cahoots with the head gang , the kod ( no , not " cod " , but " knights of destruction " . . . really ! ) , is none other than . . . the 
upright , ex-cop principal , played by the forgotten ghostbuster , ernie hudson ! 
so shale does what any good teacher would do . 
he gets his buddies together , they gather together a bunch of bazookas and other major weapons , explosives , and cool stuff like that , and they have a big showdown against the drug dealers and kod at the high school . 
ok , so the premise is not just far-fetched , it's downright dumb . 
if this were a hong kong action comedy , we might just accept it , but it takes itself far too seriously to be truly fun . 
oh , it has its moments ; how one can truly hate a movie in which huge ( really huge ) amounts of cocaine are delivered in school busses ? 
and to be fair , it is almost never really boring , as the action is interrupted by only short sequences of actual story . 
but over all , this is pretty much a made-for-tv movie with more ( and bigger ) explosions and more foul language . 
in fact , it reminded me of " miami vice " without the production values , babes in skimpy bikinis , and pastels . 
if you can sneak into the theater without paying , go for it . 
otherwise , wait for video . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 

i didn't come into city of angels expecting greatness . 
i've never seen wim wenders' wings of desire , the classic movie upon which city is loosely based . 
then again , i have seen enough stories which are based upon a similar plot device , with the little mermaid ( both the disney version and the original folktale ) being among them , that i had some high expectations about the possible power such a story of impossible love can hold . 
unfortunately , city of angels ended up fulfilling few of them . 
the plot , for those that couldn't tell from the previews , revolves around the angel seth , played with an almost creepy intensity by nicolas cage , who , in the midst of his angelic duties , falls in love with a heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan in her most endearing performance since when harry met sally ) . 
of course , his being an angel prevents him from doing much about his love except appearing at random times to talk to her , watch her buy groceries , only to disappear in the blink of an eye . 
their love must remain unrequited unless seth decides to make the ultimate sacrifice and become human . 
using this framework as a jumping-off point , the movie attempts to veer through some heavy philosophical ruminations on the nature of desire , the joys of being human , and the definition of perfection . 
the first half of the movie succeeds on most points . 
cage excellently plays the eminently difficult role of an angel who doesn't know feelings so can't really express , preventing the character of seth from getting boring despite his limited repertoire of intent looks and hang-dog expressions . 
unfortunately , cage takes the intensity too far sometimes , and then seth comes across as more creepy than sensitive . 
as maggie , ryan manages to be convincing as a heart surgeon who has trouble coming to terms with her having lost a patient on the operating table despite having done everything right . 
her beauty , unlike her unbearable cuteness in french kiss , is mature , intelligent , and winning . 
likewise , some interesting ideas float around at the beginning of the film . 
when the camera pans through traffic jams and libraries and we get to hear the thoughts of the random people who flash across the screen , the audience experiences a little of what it must be like to be an angel . 
the beautiful camera work , shooting down onto the hectic world of los angeles from the improbable perches of the angels , also gives us a sense of the unique wonder angels feel . 
the film begins to lose its way , though , when the focus tightens more and more on seth and maggie . 
the grand , angelic perspective gets lost , except for some idly tossed lines about the incredible beauty of the world through an angel's eyes . 
the movie devolves into an examination of how seth can't feel the world or , more importantly , he can't feel maggie : he can't smell her hair , feel her touch , or taste the pears she eats . 
this change in focus attempts to capture the audience in seth's intense longing , but in doing so , the conflict disappears . 
if he wants maggie so badly , then why doesn't her just make the leap and become human ? 
after all , what's so great about being an angel ? 
sure , you get to sit on marlboro signs , but what's that compared to getting to be with meg ryan ? 
and from there , once the yearning has been established and the romantic denouement must occur , it's all downhill . 
the philosophy becomes heavy-handed , the dialogue pedestrian when it tries to be deep , and the plot twists simply attempt to yank a few more tears into the audience's hankie . 
it's the last thirty minutes of the movie , then , that wrecks the film . 
i feel like the writer , by pulling out all the melodramatic stops , has robbed me of what could have been a genuinely powerful movie experience on both the romantic and the philosophical level . 
i came out feeling robbed , seeing so much possibility in a film becoming nothing . 
i could go on longer , but i don't want to " ruin " the end by revealing any of the cheap plot devices the film relies on . 
city of angels , then , is a paradox . 
it's a well-acted ( particularly look for dennis franz cutting against type-casting as a happy-go-lucky fallen angel ) , well-filmed , and based on a wonderful idea . 
all these possibilities , though , are what make the film so unredeemable when the closing credits come up . 

no , it is not a bad film , in fact it is so good in achieving its = purpose , i actually wished for the film to end itself quickly . 
event = horizon is not your run-of-the-mill sci-fi film , i'm sure many who have = watched this will agree with me . 
it is not even original in that sense , = and it does borrow heavily from films like alien , hellraiser and even = blade runner . 
the magic of this film lies in its unorthodox setting and = methodical build-up that makes it wonderfully horrifying . 
the story brings us to the year 2050 , where space travel have since = enormously progressed . 
the event horizon is actually a ship built for a = secret experimental purpose ; it has the ability to fold time and space = thus making it possible for travelling distances not reachable in a = man's lifetime . 
the ship disappeared as soon as it went into operation = but after 7 years , it reappeared again within the orbit of neptune . 
a = search and rescue team led by miller ( fishburne ) is given the task to = check for survivors of the event horizon . 
the designer of the ship , dr . = weir ( neill ) follows along to satisfy his curiosity on what actually = happened to his otherwise technologically impressive ship . 
event horizon is a sci-fi horror film , much truer to the word than say , = alien would ever be . 
while in alien , the crew has to cope with a = ferocious creature while encased within tight spaces , in event horizon , = the forces which goes against the crew is undefined but yet so powerful = and horrifying . 
the story unfolds itself slowly and the suspense buildup = is superb , up till the point where i really felt like saying out loud = `enough ! 
i can't stand this anymore ! ' . 
there are more than enough jolts = to send your adrenalin pumping overtime . 
the story in itself is not = exactly something very exciting and also , the acting is only at most , = average by most commercial standards . 
even so , the essence of horror is = carried out very well in this film , thanks to its well-paced = storytelling , disturbing set designs and some really gory sequences = ( which incidentally , has been quite generously removed by our censorship = board ) . =20 
director paul anderson ( who did mortal kombat ) and his team of = `atmosphere' creators have done well in keeping event horizon within the = bounds of the term `horror' . 
this picture did not do very well in the us = box-office most probably for the dread-factor impact it has on most = audiences ; people will not see it again and not many would recommend = their friend to watch this . 
although on the face of it , event horizon is = mostly molded for mass-entertainment ; many thrills , spills and suspense = to keep audiences in focus . 
however , the offbeat horror element which it = ultimately convey audiences is very disturbing . 
my friend and i could = not say a word to each other for quite a while after going through the = `experience' of event horizon . 
i guess it was just the immense feeling = of dread which the film had cast upon us . 
be forewarned , this film is not for the faint-hearted nor for pure = entertainment . 
be prepared to be disturbed if you should decide to watch = this film ! 
event horizon is highly recommended=85=85but at your own = risk ! 
it has been a long time since good-horror embraced the big screen , = and event horizon is one . 

kirk douglas is one of those rare american actors who can say more with a simple glance than most can say with pages of dialogue . 
all he has to do is look at someone with a raised eyebrow , and you instantly know what he's thinking . 
 " detective story " features one of kirk douglas's finest performances . 
he stars as a new york detective that has his whole world fall apart in one night . 
the film is based on a play , and this is quite evident , as most of the movie takes place in the one-room flat that the detective's work in . 
the film opens with the douglas character getting ready to go home to his wife , but through a series of events , he never quite makes it there . 
the bulk of the movie follows the case of a man named schneider , a surgeon who routinely performs abortions with a high fatality rate . 
however , this schneider character has a connection in the past of douglas's wife ; a connection douglas himself is not aware of . 
many secrets are revealed in the last half hour of this film . 
secrets i would not dream of giving away . 
with a name like " detective story " , one would assume the film would resemble an episode of " nypd blue " , but it doesn't quite work out that way . 
however , we do see douglas at work on a few other cases throughout the running time . 
lee grant ( virtually unrecognizable ) plays a meek jewish woman arrested for shoplifting . 
her scenes with bendix , another detective , provide the movie with a few laughs . 
the performances all around are fantastic . 
douglas may be the leader of this ensemble , but he's not the center of attention all the time . 
we get to catch a glimpse into other cases and other detectives working on those cases . 
which brings me back to douglas . 
he has a really emotional scene towards the end of the picture that really makes you feel for him . 
we can see that this is a man who has spent his whole life trying to eliminate crime , but has finally realized that what he's really done is gotten back at his criminal father . 
how he handles coming to terms with this is something really worth seeing . 
kirk douglas is the kind of actor we don't seem to see to much of these days : he's a tough guy , but the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath that gruff exterior . 

contact is a film that tries to do several different things . 
it is intended to present a realistic picture of what alien contact might be like , to restore a sense of wonder and mystery to the issue of extraterrestrial life , to raise questions about science and faith and how they would be relevant in such a situation , and to tell a personal story of a romance between the astronomer dr . ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) and the religious spokesman palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) . 
the film succeeds wonderfully at its first two goals . 
the portrayal of the communication from an alien world is much more reasonable ( albeit less immediately engaging ) than , say , the cold-blooded destructiveness of the invaders in independence day or even the complex process of abductions and genetic hybridization that forms the ongoing plot line of tv's the x-files . 
the aliens in contact seem to be like us-they are more curious than anything else . 
they know we exist , they want us to know that they exist , and they would like to make the next step and communicate in person . 
the film wisely refrains from showing us the aliens directly , and between the characters' ongoing speculation about the extraterrestrials and the outstanding visuals in the climactic yet enigmatic scene when arroway arrives on the alien world , that sense of wonder and mystery comes through with a force rarely seen since stanley kubrick's 2001 : a space odyssey . 
most of the film , however , takes place on earth , where there is an extended public debate on how to respond to these aliens . 
scientists are enthusiastic , ultraconservative religious leaders are wary , and government officials are caught somewhere in between . 
the debate is fueled largely by dr . arroway's atheism ; she seems the obvious choice to pilot the spacecraft for which the aliens have provided blueprints , but many are wary of sending an atheist as humankind's representative to another species . 
the film is partly successful in raising and exploring these questions , especially when it reaches a conclusion that suggests that the two approaches - science and faith - could be viewed as complementary rather than diametrically opposed . 
still , the film falls a little short in its representation of this conflict as it exists in american society . 
the two " sides " are represented primarily by arroway and by far-right fundamentalists , but in reality probably 80% of americans are neither atheists nor far-right fundamentalists . 
palmer joss occupies something of a middle ground , but he ultimately becomes distracted by personal motives and comes across as a less-than-ideal spokesman for any ideology . 
then again , the film does concentrate mostly on public debate , which does , after all , tend to be dominated by extremists , rather than on dinner-table or college-dormitory discussions . 
contact is accurate in its portrayal of these issues , then , but only within the narrow scope to which it confines itself . 
the film's one clear failure is in the portrayal of the romance between arroway and joss . 
for one thing , it resorts to the tired movie clich * that two attractive people will immediately fall in love as soon as they appear on the screen together , as there does not seem to be any other reason for their instant mutual attraction . 
the romance rarely , if ever , sheds any light on the characters , although it occasionally tries and fails - joss's explanation that he quit the priesthood because of the celibacy requirement ( " i guess you could say i'm a man of the cloth , but without the cloth " ) , for example , is more like a punchline to a joke than character development . 
instead , the romance mostly seems to exist for the sake of later plot developments . 
granted , this is a plot- and idea-driven film and the characters are secondary , but this just seemed like laziness on the writers' part more than anything else . 
the successes of contact , however , far outweigh its failures . 
even if the social commentary had fizzled altogether ( which it didn't ) , the simple yet mysterious story of alien communication still would have made it a memorable film . 
contact doesn't quite cover all the bases , but it covers about as much as one could hope for in a two-hour film , and its rejection of big-budget theatrics for a more realistic story is certainly admirable . 
and i would not be surprised if , ten years from now , contact is mentioned in the same breath as 2001 and blade runner as one of the finest examples of sophisticated and intellectually relevant science fiction . 

charlie sheen stars as zane , a radio astronomer who listens for sounds from other lifeforms . 
when he finally gets one , his boss destroys the tape and fires him . 
naturally , zane is not ready to give up , and he comes up with an ingenious way to do this himself . 
he is aided by a young neighborhood kid and they discover that the sound is coming from mexico . 
so zane goes down there to investigate , and runs into a lady studying why the temperature of the earth has dangerously risen so suddenly . 
zane is having marital problems at the time , and an offer by her to spend the night with him is very tempting . 
hearing charlie sheen deliver the line , " i guess there is something to be said for celibacy " is the funniest thing i have ever heard in a movie since matthew broderick discussed asexual reproduction in wargames . 
this is just the setup , and i don't want to give too much away , because a large part of the movies fun is the surprises . 
charlie sheen , who has had a rocky career as of late , is in top form here . 
he is funny , serious , and determined to accomplish his goal . 
sheen's absolutely terrific performance is another big plus to this movie . 
the story is ingeniously devised by twohy , who also wrote and directed the equally clever cable movie grand tour : disaster in time . 
the films major flaw is a very slow pace , and not much happens in the earlygoings . 
viewers may be growing restless for a while , but trust me if you stick around and keep your head in it , you will have a good time . 

labelling is sometimes everything . 
in original mad max , the opening title set the plot of the movie in near future , thus making it one of the science fiction classics , despite the future world being almost exactly like our own . 
walter hill wanted the same opening title for his action classic the warriors . 
producers weren't thrilled by that idea and consequently the movie lost all of its futuristic overtones . 
on the other hand , producers were right on the mark ; walter hill was accused of actually promoting some disturbing trends that were quite visible in contemporary america . 
to make the movie even more distant from future , plot was loosely based on anabasis , historical book written by xenophon , greek mercenary soldier who had described his adventures in ancient persia 2400 years ago . 
instead of ancient persia , movie begins in contemporary coney island , where cleon ( dorsey wright ) , leader of the warriors , local youth gang , gets invitation to the great gathering of all youth gangs from the city . 
the gathering , organised by gramercy park riffs , most powerful gang in the city , is taking place in bronx . 
that is far away from warriors' home territory , but small and unarmed delegation of the warriors gets there safely thanks to the general truce . 
on the gathering , cyrus ( roger hill ) , charismatic leader of the riffs , announces his grand plan to unite all the gangs and take over the city . 
crowd is enthusiastic , but the small gang of rogues , led by psychopathic luther ( david patrick kelly ) uses the opportunity to assassinate cyrus . 
police simultaneously raids the gathering , and in the commotion warriors get blamed by the killing , and their leader gets killed by riffs . 
the remaining eight , led by cleon's lieutenant swann ( michael beck ) , must now try to get to coney island , but this time unprotected by truce and instead being chased by all the gangs . 
upon its release , despite the controversies and even some youth riots that were allegedly inspired by it , the warriors enjoyed immense popularity and very quickly received some kind of a cult status . 
however , despite being one of the best movies of that year , and being directed by talented action director walter hill at the peak of his career , the movie failed to leave as strong impression to the future generations as some other cinematic achievements of that same year . 
the reason for that probably lies in a fact that this movie aged very quickly . 
if walter hill's idea was to warn the public about problems of urban america , he failed miserably . 
the future was much worse than his vision . 
the youth gangs , as presented in the warriors , are far from shadowy armies , able to take over entire cities . 
their members seem more interested in unorthodox fashion and their little petty feuds than such prosaic , and for the public more annoying , matters like crime . 
in their vocabulary , word " arms " is reserved for small knives and blunt objects , and only few of them use heavy artillery like handguns . 
they even have their own , very strict and detailed laws , upheld more strictly than some governments do with their own . 
many people in american cities would be more than happy to see their young criminals behaving like those in the warriors . 
some of the critics who accused hill of actually praising youth crime had a lot arguments in their favour . 
despite those objections , the warriors have all the elements of a very good film . 
the plot is simple , and serves as good basis for numerous action scenes . 
the fights are brilliantly choreographed and quite realistic , although there isn't much bloodshed or gore in the movie . 
editing is superb , events happen at quick pace , with the exception of middle , when boring moralistic exchanges between swann and his would-be-girlfriend mercy ( deborah van valkenburgh ) drag the plot from straight action to social drama territory . 
the soundtrack by barry de vorzon is very suggestive and recognisable . 
yet , the trademark of this film are the actors who showed great talent , although most of them later sunk into anonymity . 
best known of them is david patrick kelly , whose superb and original performance in this film later subscribed him to the roles of psychopathic villains . 
michael beck as cool , almost statesman-like leader of a gang , is also very good , and james remar gives good contrast as his hot-shot contender for top spot . 
all in all , this movie is perhaps dated , yet in its hour and half can give a lot more entertainment than most of the contemporary movies . 

 " you've got mail " is the very definition of a " cute " movie . 
it's got cute stars , a cute story-line , and even cute pets . 
despite this over-whelming cuteness ( or maybe because of it ) , i loved " you've got mail " . 
i know , i know . 
i'm supposed to be a film critic . 
i'm not supposed to love transparent and formula pictures like this . 
but darn it , somewhere along the way , " you've got mail " reeled me in , hook , line , and sinker . 
the movie stars tom hanks and meg ryan as two somewhat unhappy new yorkers who meet in an aol online chat room and quickly become close friends , without ever knowing each others identity . 
as the movie progresses , though , they begin to discover that they have a lot in common with each other . 
meanwhile , in " real-life " , they are bitter competitors . 
she owns a quaint little children's bookstore , he owns one of those gigantic super-bookstores that offer impersonal service and discount prices . 
while his store threatens to run her store out of business , their online relationship grows stronger . 
 " you've got mail " is as artificial as movies come . 
everything is nice and happy and by the end , all the characters have gotten exactly what they wanted out of life . 
there are no real conflicts , no major disappointments , no unresolved issues . 
nevertheless , i quite enjoyed it . 
in fact , i can't remember the last time i had such a good time at the movies . 
i think sometimes you have to be able to watch a movie and just get drawn into it . 
the fact that stars hank and ryan are at the top of their game does not hurt either . 
in particular , hanks is at his best here , turning his " charm-meter " up to 11 . 
everytime he was on screen , he had my full attention . 
and despite the fact that he was driving little bookstores out of business , i was rooting for him . 
it was good to see hanks back doing what he does best : playing the affable everyman . 
 " you've got mail " certainly won't be winning any awards , but as an exercise in pure entertainment , it's as good as it gets . 

october sky is a rare oddity in cinema : a self-proclaimed " uplifting " film that is actually uplifting ! 
based on the autobiographical book by homer hickam , rocket boys , october sky tells the struggle of four boys reaching for their dream . 
it's 1957 , and for the boys of coalwood , west virginia , there's not much hope of a rosy future . 
coalwood is a coal mining town , and , except for the few lucky ones who manage to escape on a football scholarship , most of coalwood's boys are destined to work in the mine . 
but , in october 1957 , an event happens that sparks one boy to dream . 
the launch of the soviet satellite sputnik sets homer hickam ( jake gyllenhaal ) to dream a future of rocketry and space travel . 
of course , homer's parents ( chris cooper and natalie canderday ) aren't quite sure what to make of their son's unusual interests . 
homer gets his strongest encouragement from miss riley ( laura dern ) , a teacher in his school who also informs him about the scholarships offered to the winners of a national science fair . 
and so , with stars in his eyes , and thoughts of scholarships in his head , homer enlists the help of three other boys ( william lee scott , chad lindberg and chris owen ) and begins to build a rocket . 
but , do these four backwoods boys even have the slightest hope of escaping their destiny ? 
there is a lot that could have gone wrong with october sky . 
nearly every sequence flirts with becoming syrupy and cliched . 
however , miraculously , october sky avoids nearly all of these pitfalls , making the exact right moves at the exact right times . 
a film emerges which manages to be powerful and moving without slipping into the gauzy haze of nostalgia or sliding down the sugarry slope of sappiness . 
jake gyllenhaal is outstanding as the kid at the center of this film . 
>from the outset of the film , he is immediately likable , and never seems too corny or brainy as to alienate the audience . 
unfortunately , while october sky focuses on homer , the other three kids get the short end of the stick . 
they remain little more than placeholders reading " insert friend here " . 
of the adults in the film , chris cooper is the most fully realized character . 
the film never paints him as merely the villainous parent standing in the way of his child's dreams , but , instead , shows the multihued portrait of a man who wants the best for his family and town , but is too stubborn to realize what that is . 
director joe johnson deserves much credit for successfully navigating the many obstacles that october sky manages to dodge . 
however , there are still a few occasions when he allows things to proceed just a step too far . 
scenes which were natural and inspiring start to become contrived and artificial . 
however , these lapses are minimal , and johnson quickly steers the movie back on course . 
the problem with many so-called " uplifting " films is that they attempt to force their mediciney goodness down your throat . 
october sky never resorts to that level , and yet , manages to become a truly uplifting film purely on its own merits . 

starring arnold schwarzenegger ; danny devito ; emma thompson & frank langella the only thing that you can say about junior is that it is a disappointment , and a big one at that . 
junior brings together arnold schwarzenegger and danny devito with director ivan reitman . 
these are the same men that brought us the very funny twins . 
so foolish me , i was hoping for something that would at least come close to the level of quality of twins . 
so much for hopes . 
schwarzenegger and devito play two scientists ( doctors hesse and arbogast ) who are working on a new drug that will reduce the possibility of miscarriage in pregnancy . 
unfortunately , due to circumstances beyond their control , they are denied permission to test this new drug on humans , and subsequently lose their funding . 
still believing that their drug will work , they decide to test it anyway , on hesse . 
so , dr . hesse ( schwarzenegger ) artificially inseminates himself and begins taking the drug . 
their theory is that if the drug can prevent a man from miscarrying , surely it will work on a woman . 
does the thought of arnold schwarzenegger pregnant sound funny or humorous to you ? 
well , it must have to the producers of junior . 
admittedly , schwarzenegger has the comedic talent to pull it off . 
perhaps if it had been done differently it might have actually been funny . 
but it wasn't , schwarzenegger pregnant is goofy at best . 
the sight of schwarzenegger running around going through the hormone imbalances that come with pregnancy , and the accompanying emotional swings , is not funny . 
schwarzenegger comes very close to embarrassing himself with these antics . 
i kept thinking to myself , with the time arnold wasted making this turkey he could have been making an action picture . 
better yet , with schwarzenegger , devito and reitman all in the same place at the same time , why didn't they make a sequel to twins ? 
anything would have been better than this mess . 
danny devito is wasted in this movie . 
his part could have been played by any joker they pulled in off the street . 
 ( after seeing the movie , if i was devito , i probably would have wished they had pulled someone in off the street . ) 
emma thompson is wasted here as well . 
while thompson is best known for her jane austin adaptations , she is also a fine comedian . 
too bad she didn't get to use any of that talent here . 
am i being too hard on this film ? 
i don't think so . 
schwarzenegger and devito are two of my favorite actors in film today , and ivan reitman is one of the more talented directors in hollywood . 
with a supporting cast of emma thompson and frank langella , the filmmakers really have to be trying hard to make a bad film . 
they certainly managed here . 
maybe it was well intentioned , but unfortunately this is a movie that never should have been made . 
if you are tempted to see this film , do yourself a favor and go rent twins , a film that truly takes advantage of arnold schwarzenegger and danny devito's comedic talents . 

one of the responses those that enjoy " detroit rock city " ( probably kiss fans , mostly ) might have upon first glance at the rating i've given the film might be something like : " oh , that casey's gone and become a jaded critic on us . 
just what did he expect out of a dumb teenage rock n' roll movie like this ? " 
i'm wondering the same thing . 
i feel like i should have had a grand time with " detroit rock city . " 
it's the sort of movie i wish i could've had a lot of fun with , but i didn't . 
i just didn't . 
surely this film isn't trying to win any major awards , so should i have expected an oscar-caliber film ? 
no , but i expected something . 
a funny joke . 
a clever prank . 
a plot development . 
anything . 
the movie never delivers . 
you've got to marvel at how the filmmakers managed to come up with a movie that is truly about nothing . 
 " detroit rock city " is one of those films that you walk out of after the credits have rolled and realize that you just spent 90 minutes watching a movie in which absolutely nothing happened to justify the film's existence , and it's not a very satisfying realization . 
the film is about four teenage boys , all huge kiss fans from cleveland , trying to get into a kiss concert in detroit , michigan . 
that's it . 
there is no big plot description in this review , because the movie has very little plot . 
the characters are hawk ( edward furlong ) , lex ( giuseppe andrews ) , trip ( james debello ) , and jam ( sam huntington ) . 
they have a garage band . 
they're pathetic , like all garage bands , but they like kiss and they like rock n' roll , so i guess that means we root for them . 
they have tickets , they lose them . 
they get more tickets , they lose those too . 
they come up with crazy schemes to get tickets , most of which backfire . 
there's not much more to it . 
frankly , it becomes a little less than exciting to see them try to get kiss tickets about halfway through the film , when a total of eight tickets have already graced the boys' hands , only to be lost because of their sheer stupidity . 
oh , and jam ( real name jeremiah ) has a really , really annoying ultra-religious mother who ought to be reported to the child welfare agency . 
she doesn't want them to see kiss , if you hadn't figured that out already . 
it's really quite disheartening to see such a fine soundtrack go to waste in a pointless movie like this . 
we've got plenty of kiss , along with some ac/dc , ramones , and thin lizzy . 
then again , " maximum overdrive " had an awesome soundtrack ( me being the big ac/dc fan that i am ) , but is probably one of the worst movies of all time . 
 " detroit rock city " doesn't quite reach that level of ineptitude , but it gets dangerously close . 
in fact , the music is the only thing that keeps this movie from being a complete failure in my mind . 
basically , the soundtrack has earned the film a full half-star , which means all the bands involved can pat themselves on the back ( except for marilyn manson , whose half-hearted cover of ac/dc's " highway to hell " sounds like something my neighbor's cat coughed up ) . 
it's also really sad to see the talents of the cast go to waste , because it' s evident that they're all trying really hard to squeeze some life out of this dead turkey of a movie . 
edward furlong has done far better work than this , and so has natasha lyonne , and so has lin shaye , but hey , they've got to make a living in hollywood . 
people wanting to see kiss , and lots of it will probably be disappointed , considering the band appears for about five minutes and plays one song . 
too bad , they might have provided some energy to this mess . 
director adam rifkin knows he hasn't got much material to work with , so he takes a chapter from the michael bay book of directing and keeps his camera spinning . 
we get an endless parade of quick-cuts , split-screens , zoom-outs , zoom-ins , and rotating cameras , all in an effort to cover up the sheer stupidity of the script . 
it's fun for a while , but eventually it becomes disorienting . 
i would recommend that those who felt seasick at " the blair witch project " stay far away from " detroit rock city , " because the witch has got nothing on this baby . 
i haven't felt such an urge to reach out and hold the camera still since " armageddon . " 
and what about that script ? 
it's written by carl j . dupr ? , which sounds like as made-up a name as i've ever heard . 
if it is , i can't say i blame the writer for distancing himself as far from this script as possible . 
a plotless , pointless rock n' roll movie can be fun , if the jokes and gags are actually funny . 
the jokes in " detroit rock city " rarely are . 
in fact , the only time i really laughed was when a priest gets stoned on a marijuana-laced pizza , and that was just because it was so surreal . 
the rest of the movie just seems like they just threw a bunch of vulgar stuff up on screen and called it " comedy . " 
there is no set-up , just a succession of punchlines that don't provide for much in the way of chuckles , precisely because there was no set-up . 
it's as if they just whacked someone on the head , pointed at him and said , " see ? 
funny ! " 
look , that woman was so shocked by hearing loud kiss music that she spilled her drink . 
see ? 
funny ! 
look , that guy just got clocked by a telephone receiver . 
twice . 
see ? 
funny ! 
look , that kid has been vomiting for 20 minutes after drinking an inordinate amount of alcohol and is now about to perform an exotic dance for money . 
see ? 
funny ! 
a word of advice to mr . dupr ? : no , these things aren't funny all by themselves . 
they must be preceded by a clever set-up so the audience hasn 't predicted them five minutes in advance . 
that's it , i've said enough about this movie . 
it's a waste of time and money . 
i liked the music , but don't bother buying the soundtrack . 
i hear it' s just modern bands doing inferior versions of the songs that are actually in the movie . 
you want to see this concept executed well ? 
go rent roger corman's 1979 classic " rock n' roll high school . " 
it features another late-seventies rock band ( the ramones ) and a far more interesting story about a girl trying to get tickets to their show . 
yes , go rent that , and skip " detroit rock city , " which will probably bomb , and deservedly so . 

there was a time when john carpenter was a great horror director . 
of course , his best film was 1978's masterpiece , " halloween , " but he also made 1980's " the fog , " and 1987's underrated , " prince of darkness . " 
heck , he even made a good film in 1995 , with " in the mouth of madness . " 
but something terribly wrong happened to him in 1992 , with the terrible comedy , " memoirs of an invisible man . " 
somehow , carpenter has lost his touch , with junk like his failed 1995 remake of , " village of the damned , " to his uninspired 1996 sequel , " escape from l . a . " those movies , however , look like cinematic works of art compared to his latest film , " john carpenter's vampires . " 
if i was him , i definately wouldn't want to put my own name in the title . 
it is a sad state of affairs when carpenter can make something as misguided and flatly written and filmed as , " vampires . " 
the story is simple . 
jack crow ( james woods ) is a vampire hunter who , along with one of his partners , montoya ( daniel baldwin ) , and a prostitute , katrina ( sheryl lee ) , survives an attack from the master vampire , valek ( thomas ian griffith ) . 
since katrina was previously bitten by him , crow takes her along because anyone who is bitten by valek becomes telepathically linked to him until they themselves turn into vampires a couple days later , and crow is hoping to find him with the help of her . 
it seems valek's mission is to steal a black , wooden cross from a roman catholic church that will enable him to become so powerful that sunlight will not destroy him . 
my question is : how many time have we seen this same story played out ? 
well , the answer is just about as many times as a better version of the story has been made . 
 " john carpenter's vampires , " sadly enough , is one of the most unscary horror films i've ever seen . 
in fact , there isn't even one suspenseful moment in the whole 105-minute running time . 
the non-stop vampire attack sequences are stylelessly filmed , without any interesting camera work , which is usually a trademark of carpenter's . 
and then we come to the screenplay , which , as far as i can tell , is nearly non-existent . 
there is no story development , and there isn't even an attempt to flesh out the characters . 
james woods can be a good actor , but he has nothing to do here but to say a couple of " pseudo " -clever lines of dialogue . 
daniel baldwin has some potential , but his character comes off as being very dense . 
and sheryl lee ( faring much better as laura palmer in " twin peaks " ) , like all of the female characters , plays an offensive stereotypical whore . 
there is not an ounce of intelligence , or excitement in , " john carpenter's vamires , " which is very disheartening coming from an ex-fan of carpenter's . 
he has said that he turned down directing , " halloween : h20 , " because he couldn't work up any excitement for it . 
and yet , when asked about a " vampires " sequel , he said he would be happy to do it . 
i think that's a definite sign that carpenter has finally lost any trace of his lasting talent , not to mention a significant number of iq points . 

these days , we are witnessing the deluge of films based on old , cult tv shows . 
most of the times , the fans of these shows shudder thinking what could hollywood hacks of the present do with the memories of their past . 
but , some five or six years ago , there weren't that many movies and the trend didn't look that depressing . 
so , the people who , like the author of this review , grew up watching flintstones , popular 1960s animated series about " modern stone age " family , weren't particularly worried when the word came about live action remake . 
after all , the producer behind the project was steven spielberg and , if anything else , at least the special effects would be good . 
the plot revolves about flintstones , family set in fictious stone age " town " of bedrock , whose members enjoy the lifestyle of 1950s middle class america . 
fred flinstone ( john goodman ) works in the quarry , and one day he helps his best friend and neighbour barney rubble ( rick moranis ) and his wife betty ( rosie o'donnell ) to adopt a baby . 
to return the favour , barney switches his results of aptitude test with fred , and , based on that , fred gets well-paid job in management . 
but , of course , this is just a sham - corrupt official cliff vandercave ( kyle maclachlan ) and his sultry secretary sharon stone ( halle berry ) need a scapegoat for their embezzlement scheme . 
in the meantime , fred's wife wilma ( elizabeth perkins ) must face her mother ( elizabeth taylor ) who can't stand fred . 
on the superficial level , the flintstones did the excellent job in bringing the animated series to life . 
computer effects are flawless , and the costumes , settings and other details are authentic for all the fans of the show . 
unfortunately , problems with this film start with inadequate casting - rick moranis is too thin for the role of barney , while the cartoon betty used to be much skinnier than rosie o'donnell . 
but the greatest problem of all is plot , or to be precise , the lack of plot . 
some thirty six screenwriters made sure that the plot of the film is lame , original characters one-dimensional , and many elements of the story , like embezzlement and inter-office politics , totally incomprehensible for the little children , the main targeted audience of this film . 
result is almost unwatchable mess , occasionally saved mostly by excellent acting ( elizabeth perkins was right on mark as wilma ) and one of the classic example of mortal hollywood disease known as " high concept " . 
after great hype , movie quickly sank into oblivion and the fans of the show returned to the animated version . 
all in all , film isn't that bad , but only the hard core fans and nostalgics can find more than guilty pleasure in it . 

it's terribly unfortunate that " stir of echoes , " tautly written and directed by david koepp ( who made one of 1996's unsung treasures , " the trigger effect " ) , should be released little more than a month after " the sixth sense , " which is still going strong at the box office . 
these two films are undoubtedly going to be compared ( judging from practically all of my fellow audience members last night ) , and although they have eerily similar storylines , " stir of echoes " is more of a straightforward psychological horror film , while " the sixth sense " is closer to a psychological drama . 
additionally , while " the sixth sense " had a shocker of an ending that undoubtedly has been one of the major factors in its recent repeat business , " stir of echoes " is more conventional and predictable in its final twist . 
and where " the sixth sense " was disturbing , " stir of echoes " is just plain scary . 
i have a feeling most viewers are going to come away unimpressed because of the unavoidable similarities , and will foolishly forget to judge this film on its own respectable merits . 
adapted from a novel by richard matheson that was written some forty years ago , " stir of echoes " opens with a cute six-year-old boy named jake ( zachary david cope ) who is taking a bath . 
he is speaking directly at the screen , but we immediately have a feeling someone else is there . 
finally , he asks , " does it hurt to be dead ? " 
apparently jake sees the ghosts of dead people , but unlike " the sixth sense , " this young child isn't the focus of the picture . 
instead , tom witzy ( kevin bacon ) , a chicago lineman , is our protagonist . 
jake is his son , and maggie ( kathryn erbe ) , whom has just discovered she is six weeks pregnant , is his hard-working wife . 
one night while at a party with their closest friends , tom convinces maggie's new-age sister , lisa ( illena douglas ) , to try and hypnotize him . 
it unexpectedly works , and before long , tom is seeing things he wouldn't normally see , including a deceased teenage girl ( jenny morrison ) in his house who happens to have been missing for the last six months . 
seeking help from lisa , she tells him that , while he was under hypnosis , she told him that after he awoke , his mind will remain clear and free , like an opened door . 
she didn't expect it to work , but it did , and the only way to stop it is for tom to somehow find a way to help this girl he sees . 
 " stir of echoes " isn't a perfect film by any stretch of the imagination , but in the thick , atmospheric mood it conjures up , it is a terrifically eerie domestic horror-drama , and is not only effective on a technical level , but is impressive in its portrayal of a struggling working-class family . 
kevin bacon and , especially , kathryn erbe ( 1997's " dream with the fishes " ) , are top-notch and exceedingly believable as a loving married couple who nonetheless have their fair share of problems . 
after tom is hypnotized and starts seeing ghastly visions , he is completely taken over by his desire to solve this mystery of the disappearing girl whom he has seen lurking in his house , and instead of maggie not being understanding , she instead believes what tom says , and aside from being a little worried by what he is going through , does not try to stop his pursuit . 
bacon and erbe are not traditional hollywood stars like tom cruise and julia roberts , and therefore , are easier to relate to and always plausible as a struggling couple who have to work overtime at their jobs just to make ends meet . 
in a masterfully-done , entrancing sequence , tom is hypnotized by lisa , but instead of watching him , we instead see what he sees , starting from his view as he closes his eyes into darkness . 
lisa tells him to visualize being in an empty movie theater , and so , we , as audience members , are watching a movie screen from inside a theater , which is also showing a movie screen in a theater . 
telling him to move closer and closer to the screen as a fuzzy word in black letters pops up on the screen , we begin to float closer and closer to the front of the theater until we see that the word is " sleep . " 
never before have i seen a hypnotism scene as mesmerizing and brilliantly-construed as this one . 
truthfully , this set-piece , and another in which tom wakes up from a nightmarish dream only to quickly discover he is reliving what he has just dreamt , are worth the full price of admission alone , just to see them on the big screen . 
having loads of fun with her small role as maggie's sister , lisa , illeana douglas ( 1995's " to die for , " her last great character ) is a delight , but rarely used to her full advantage in feature films . 
funny and enjoyably offbeat , douglas gets to utter the best line in the film : while talking to maggie about tom's visions of the girl , she remarks , " i wouldn't be worried about him seeing another girl , although the fact that she's dead gives one pause . " 
also of note are jenny morrison ( 1994's " intersection " ) , who is truly poignant in the last half of the film when we flash back to see what really happened to her missing character , and liza weil , remarkable in 1998's " whatever , " as morrison's grieving teenage sister , debbie . 
if the resolution of " stir of echoes " does not live up to its obviously frightful full potential ( and it doesn't ) , what comes before is both involving and appropriately gritty . 
the music score , by james newton howard , and unsettling use of whispers and ghostly sound effects , successfully compliment and foreshadow the off-kilter frame-of-mind that tom is put into , and director david koepp proves once again that he is a director with a knack for creating almost unbearably tense situations that revolve around realistically-written characters . 
 " stir of echoes " isn't as good as " the sixth sense , " but why should it need to be ? 
both films are fully capable of standing on their own two feet , and " stir of echoes " really is a spinetinglingly good horror film . 

filmmakers will use all manner of tricks to flesh out and brighten up a dull , dreary , and overused idea . 
doug liman ( swingers ) , director of the ultra-hip and severely dark comedy go , is an example of just such a filmmaker . 
in his latest , he gives the viewers a raucous , neon-lit backdrop as cinematographer and points the audience down a drug-infested path of misadventure as director . 
but he fails to come up with any parallel structure in his multi-tiered movie and he fails to connect with the audience on any level , bringing the worth of his efforts to nil and the value of go to about the same . 
his movie is produced anthology-style -- telling the same story from multiple ( three ) points of view , much as an author might write a serial novel . 
consistent with this ethic , liman and screenwriter john august provide a bit of an overlap at the beginning of each narrative and insert brief connections to other narratives . 
the thread that laces the three stories together is a drug deal and the events thereafter . 
in story a we have checkout clerk ronna ( sarah polley ) looking to score some rent money and turning to drug trafficking to do it ; in story b we have regular drug dealer simon ( desmond askew ) gone to las vegas giving ronna her opportunity ; and in story c we have gay soap actors zack ( jay mohr ) and adam ( scott wolf ) working undercover for the police to bust said drug deal . 
neither of the three stories have much substance , and the movie has the feel of a campfire story ( albeit a rather strange one ) that could be told in five to ten minutes . 
 ( in fact , the movie was originally a short film entitled x expanded to feature length . ) 
the early april release date is too mistimed to capitalize on the movie's christmas setting , and the los angeles/las vegas nightlife is something too far from the mainstream for most theater-goers to attach themselves to . 
the characters are shallow to the point of prerequisite , and performances from little-known players like polley , askew , and taye diggs don't help or hurt the roles . 
in fact , even bigger names like mohr , wolf , and katie holmes don't have enough time to make substantial success . 
although that's almost expected for lack of continuous screen time , the success in the picture should come from a thread that binds the stories . 
go doesn't have this , and it suffers because of it . 
as far as teen movies are concerned , go represents the absolute bottom , for its constant stream of indecipherable light and sound mean nothing without some sort of common theme . 
 ( the following do not count as common themes : drug deals , people attempting to have romantic interludes with drug dealers , people resorting to drug deals for alterior motives , or people not involved in drug deals stumbling into them . ) 
at times , the humor in go is sickly funny , and on a low night , almost watchable ; but for the majority of its running time and for most viewers , this movie will best be left to teens at blockbuster on a saturday night . 

under any other circumstances , i would not be discussing the ending of a film to the extent that i will in this particular review . 
however , in order to fully explain exactly how and why this movie is so awful , a minute dissection of the ending is necessary . 
even though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes , do proceed at your own risk . 
the movie opens ( quite poorly , i might add ) as child psychologist malcolm crowe ( bruce willis , looking like he was dragged out of his trailer at the wee hours of the morning to shoot each scene ) and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm's past patients . 
distraught , the suicidal man ( a cameo by new kid on the block donnie wahlberg ) shoots malcolm and then turns the gun on himself . 
cut to the " next fall " , as we find the good doctor quietly observing his latest case , a trouble young man named cole ( haley joel osment , one of the only child actors in a while i didn't want to bludgeoned over the head with a blunt instrument ) . 
after about 45 minutes of seemingly unrelated freak occurrences , we learn that cole has " the sixth sense " , the gift of being able to communicate with the dead . 
and this , as they say , is where the healing begins . 
the sixth sense and its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending that i knew going into the film ( one of roger ebert's colleges was kind enough to give it away on a recent segment of " siskel and ebert " ) . 
although i was at first enraged that an established film critic could so callously ruin a film for thousands of patrons , i soon realized that this turn of events could in fact have been a blessing in disguise ; i've always been a sucker for surprise endings ( my favorite movie is the usual suspects ) and rarely dislike a film that sports one . 
here , since i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film's conclusion , the possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movie solely because of its ending ( something i've fallen victim to in the past ) was eliminated . 
and indeed , my viewing of the sixth sense did prove to be quite an enlightening experiment . 
stripped of the element of surprise , the film was put to the task of showing what it really had , instead of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion . 
after seeing its true colors , i came to the conclusion that the sixth sense is , despite what the many champions of the movie may say , void of any real power . 
it's a neat concept , but not one that justifies being made into a feature-length movie . 
in fact , the sixth sense relies so strongly on its finale that the rest of the film develops as a sort of prelude to the supposedly earth-shattering revelation that is yet to come . 
and when the final moments do come , it's a huge letdown ; the end makes no sense at all . 
it stupefied me with the heights of its ineptitude and is completely idiotic on a fundamental and very rare level . 
i won't go into any details , but suffice to say that , as far as i can tell , it negates to rest of the movie to such an extent that anyone who buys it even for a second must be suffering from a very acute case of attention deficit disorder . 
now , in all fairness , i cannot say for sure that i would have guessed the ending ( however stupid it may be ) had it not been revealed to me before hand . 
however , i feel very confident that i , as well as anyone who had seen a few " twilight zone " episodes , would have seen it coming a mile away . 
the fact that movie-goers nation wide are surprised by the ending still has me stumped . 
ironically , to fully appreciate the best scene ( that of cole and malcolm attending a little girl's funeral ) , the viewer is required to be aware of a very rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy . 
i wouldn't have even known about this mental disease if i hadn't , by pure dumb luck , caught " dateline nbc " the other week when they did a feature story on it . 
despite being blessed with some really amazing cinematography and a brauva performance from osment ( where was this kid when casting calls were going out for the phantom menace ? ) , in the end , the sixth sense is too chalk-full of contradictions and just isn't plausible enough to warrant even a slight recommendation . 

scream 2 , like its predecessor , is a genre-crossing film . 
it is about 50% horror film and 50% murder mystery . 
the mix worked very well last time and it continues to entertain this time . 
scream was also known for its self-referential tone . 
many inside jokes were made in reference to horror movies and wes craven . 
again , scream 2 follows suit with characters saying such things as " sequels suck " and " the entire horror genre was destroyed by sequels . " 
scream 2's story is very similar to it's predecessor's . 
sidney ( neve campbell ) , having survived the killing spree in scream , is now in college . 
gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a book about the murders and that book is now being released as a feature film , called stab ( which for all practical purposes is the real-world movie scream ) . 
at the premiere of stab , two students from sidney's college are stabbed to death , and a new story begins . 
the press descends on sidney and her college to get the scoop on this sequel killer . 
they want to know all about the links between stab , sidney , and the recent murders . 
the most complex self-reference i saw ( this should be an olympic event ) was the scene where gale weathers was asking questions at a press conference . 
the rest of the press was watching and videotaping weathers . 
the other survivors from scream were watching and videotaping the press . 
the audience was watching the whole , filmed scene . 
 ( whew . ) 
the movie is packed with layers and self-references that make it a pleasure to watch . 
even better would be to watch a double feature of scream and scream 2 . that's not to say that these references necessarily make scream 2 a deep , or even a good movie . 
the just add to the fun of watching it . 
i recommend it for other reasons as well . 
what i liked best about the horror aspect of the movie is that the monster is not supernatural . 
no werewolf or ghost or psycho with superhuman strength is responsible . 
it is a person in a mask and a robe , his only advantage the fear he strikes into his victims . 
no extraordinary leap of faith is needed to believe in the killer . 
the down side is that if you are frightened by horror movies , you have less grounds to say " it's just a movie . " 
the whodunit aspect of the movie is not that great by itself - gale weathers and deputy dewey ( david arquette , also from the original ) track down a killer . 
they are likeable , but not outstanding . 
but in combination with the horror aspect , the whodunit is a perfect counterpoint . 
it was exactly a year ago today that i wrote the review for scream . 
the internet movie database says that scream 3 is in the works , so i wonder if i'll be doing the same thing on january 1 , 1999 . 
if craven and screenwriter kevin williamson are able to keep the quality high , i'll be happy to mark my calendar . 

movies like six days , seven nights make me mad because talented people like harrison ford , anne heche , and ivan reitman put a lot of hard work in to a script worth about ten cents . ? 
the script was written by michael browning , and he decided that , instead of thinking up new ideas , he'd rehash a lot of cliches , omit even the slightest bit of character development , and then throw in drug-dealing pirates to provide for a few high-level action sequences and explosions . ? 
there are good scripts out there that high-profile actors can make ( see the truman show , for instance ) . ? 
six days , seven nights is simply a waste . 
let's see . 
 . 
 . 
we have to get harrison ford and anne heche alone on an island . ? 
so , how do we do that ? ? 
well , we'll make her a feisty magazine editor , and we'll make him a crusty old pilot . ? 
but wait , she has to have a fianc ? e ; that can be david schwimmer . ? 
but wait , if she has a fianc ? e , how will she and harrison ford crash on the island alone ? ? 
i know ! ? 
they'll get to their vacation spot , and then she'll get called back ! ? 
yessssss ! ? 
so , they'll crash on the island , and that will be funny for about five minutes . ? 
shucks . 
oh , i've got it ! ? 
we'll throw in a distracting subplot in which her fianc ? e has sex with a really attractive woman who acts like a bimbo , and then he can feel guilty . ? 
then , when anne heche kisses harrison ford ( they have to kiss , because otherwise nobody will want to see the movie ) , it will be a vindicated action , because her fianc ? e will already have cheated on her ! ? 
then , for no obvious reason , they'll accidentally run into pirates who try to kill them . ? 
oh , yes ! ? 
i feel so good about this story . ? 
instead of using characterization to propel the events , it will be completely random , and yet totally predictable ! ? 
imagine that . 
don't get me wrong -- six days , seven nights is not a boring picture ; ford and heche both do a great job . ? 
the sparks fly between them , and so most of browning's inane dialogue is drowned out by the actors' sheer force of talent . 
 ? almost every scene between them has energy that the performers bring to the screen , and i found myself laughing pretty hard . ? 
schwimmer is also funny , and manages to milk all of his scenes for whatever he can get . ? 
and reitman , who has made some good films , at least tries to make things exciting . ? 
even though the pirate subplot is profoundly dumb , i was prepared to be pleasantly sidetracked by the action sequences . 
it's just when i start to think about the story that my contempt for this film surfaces . ? 
the picture feels like it's been hacked to pieces -- i wouldn't be surprised if five or six inept subplots have been edited out completely . ? 
the ones that are here are as bad as they come ( i think i let out a very audible groan when they get the first glimpse of the pirate ships ) , and i'd just like to shake the producers by the shoulders and scream , " why did you pick this awful script ! ? " ? 
the film is outright stupid , but some of the elements are subtly horrifying . ? 
for instance , take the subplot in which the schwimmer character has sex with the bimbo , and then feels really guilty . ? 
this is a serious problem in real life , but six days , seven nights reduces any chance of complexity to a weak plot device : ? his actions are what makes it okay for heche to kiss ford . ? 
in a script that lacks even a glimpse of intelligent subtlety , i find it odd that such a strangely insulting device ended up in the story . 
this is summer movie season , but that doesn't mean our movies have to be dumb . ? 
1998 so far has been one of the worst years in recent memory for summer blockbusters . ? 
when i was in line for six days , seven nights , i heard the woman in front of me ask for " two tickets to that new harrison ford movie . " 
 ? why didn't she know the name of the film ? ? 
i suppose she just didn't care . 
 ? what bothers me even more is that the people who make these big-budget pictures don't realize that their films are becoming parodies of themselves . ? 
good actors should sign to good scripts , and if hollywood insists on making flicks to rake in cash , they least they could do is assume that we'd like to spend our money on a story worth more than ten cents . 

the law of crowd pleasing romantic movies states that the two leads must end up together by film's end . 
if you're not familiar with this law , then maybe you've seen the trailer for this film which shows that the two leads are together by film's end . 
now if you're a regular reader of mine , you've heard me say this countless times : you know how drive me crazy is going to end , but is the journey to get to that ending worth it ? 
no , it definitely is not . 
melissa joan hart ( from abc's " sabrina , the teenage witch " ) likes a hunky stud on the basketball team . 
adrien grenier is her grungy neighbor who's just broken up with his activist girlfriend . 
apparently he wants to make his ex-girlfriend jealous enough to take him back , and she wants someone to take her to the big year end dance . 
so the two pretend to date for some reason , but only after hart gives grenier a bath to turn him into a hunky stud . 
will grenier like his new popularity and turn on his friends ? 
will this crazy scheme work ? 
do i care ? 
the teen comedy resurgence of late has been surprisingly good in terms of comedy . 
what makes movies like can't hardly wait and 10 things i hate about you work ( and to a lesser extent , she's all that and never been kissed ) is because the writers of those films seem to realize that high school is a joke and write their scripts accordingly . 
i don't know what the writer's intention was with drive me crazy . 
there was some smart comedy in those films to make the obvious endings worth getting to . 
here there's nothing . . . 
just teens whining about who's going to take them to the big dance . 
do me a favor kids , go get a job or something . . . 
just shut the hell up . 
in all honesty , the best part of this film is the end credits . 
now normally when i say that it's followed with the joke " . . . because the movie is finally over . " 
in this case though the end credits really are the most entertaining part of the film . 
after the obligatory second playing of britney spears' titular song , there's a quick commercial jingle for a burger joint the kids in the film hang out in and a brief rendition of the school song for their high school . 
nothing great , but more entertaining than anything in the 90 minutes which preceded them . 
sci-fi fans take note : there are brief appearances from stephen collins ( star trek : the motion picture ) and faye grant ( the tv miniseries " v " and " v : the final battle " ) . 
[pg-13] 

 " battlefield earth " is the best comedy of the year . 
it has to be . 
the other prospect is just too horrifying to consider . 
bad movie syndrome struck me again , so after witnessing how much " battlefield earth " has been proclaimed a train wreck in both critical and popular circles , i felt the masochistic urge to see the disaster first-hand . 
is it as bad as advertised ? 
oh yes , very much so . 
the plot is incomprehensible . 
the acting is atrocious . 
the special effects are mediocre . 
the action is dull . 
the implausibilities are legion . 
the dialogue is cringe-inducing . 
the whole package is funny when it wants to be serious and irritating when it wants to be funny . 
i don't even want to continue reviewing this movie ; i'd like to purge the atrocity from my mind as soon as possible , but you probably want to read my thrashing in all its sarcastic glory , so here it is : 
the premise is basically a rip-off of " planet of the apes , " only minus the apes and philosophical discussion , and plus a race of evil aliens from the planet psychlo . 
the year is 3000 , the psychlos have conquered earth , and the human population has been enslaved . 
only a handful of humans escaped to radiation-rich areas to escape the aliens ; they live out their lives in fear . 
one man , johnny goodboy ( i know , i know ) tyler ( barry pepper ) , ventures to the outworld and is captured by the psychlos . 
there he confronts the psychlo head of security : a big , ugly , klingon-looking creature called terl ( john travolta ) . 
pressed into slavery , johnny vows to lead a revolution and take the planet back . 
meanwhile , terl is faced with his own problems : he has recently learned that he's stuck living on earth ( which he hates ) for the rest of his career because he pissed off his boss by sleeping with the big man's daughter . 
he decides to give johnny knowledge of the psychlo language and technology ( this is where the plot gets ridiculous . 
 . 
 . ) 
so the " man-animal " can lead a mining expedition into places the psychlos can't go . 
terl then plans to keep the mined gold for himself . 
of course , his plan doesn't work . 
so many things wrong with this movie -- where to begin ? 
how about with travolta , whose hollywood clout brought about this , the cinematic version of scientology guru l . ron hubbard's sci-fi novel ? 
early previews for " battlefield earth , " with constant shots of a makeup-laden travolta cackling like lex luthor , had me ( and several audience members ) remarking , " what the hell is travolta thinking ? " 
the movie did nothing to stem such remarks . 
all that ridiculous cackling he did in the trailers is in full force here : terl cackles after nearly every line , and so does every other psychlo . 
of course , this makes every scene hilariously overwrought , no more so than when the script clumsily stumbles into political commentary . 
the psychlos are probably supposed to be some kind of satire of corporate america , but ceos generally don't laugh maniacally after denying pay raises to their employees . 
 ( " you were going to be promoted -- but now you're not ! 
fwahahahahahahahaha ! ! ! ! ! " ) 
it's no big surprise terl loses to the humans -- he's an idiot . 
he breaks every kind of supervillain rule in the book . 
he underestimates his enemies , assuming he'll win just because he's smarter . 
 ( he uses the word " leverage " like some sort of scientologist mantra . ) 
not content to go the james bond villain route of explaining his plans to the hero , he hooks him up to a machine that gives him knowledge of all the psychlos' language and technology . 
 ( why this machine is even around in the first place is beyond me . ) 
he then appears shocked that johnny points a gun at him . 
no wonder this guy never got his promotion . 
the plot inconsistencies are too numerous to mention . 
why do the psychlos build an earth base in which both they and the human slaves must wear little breathing apparatuses to survive ? 
how come the psychlos are wasting their time mining for gold when the doors of fort knox are wide open ? 
how in the world did all those fighter jets survive sitting in a hangar for 1 , 000 years ? 
and how do all these previously brain-dead cavemen learn to fly them so quickly ? 
there's a whole lot more to scratch one's head about in " battlefield earth . " 
bring a scorecard to track the plot holes . 
director roger christian shoots " battlefield earth " in the most distracting way possible , tilting nearly every shot sideways for no discernible reason . 
all the characters appear to be standing on the walls , and it's awfully difficult to watch a movie when you must tilt your head just to watch ordinary passages of dialogue . 
the action sequences are atrociously edited , every one turned into an endless slow-motion parade that drains all potential excitement . 
are these things really so hard to construct ? 
my respect for supposed " lightweight " action directors has grown by leaps and bounds after witnessing in " battlefield earth " how badly an action sequence can be shot . 
this movie is an absolute headache . 
it's not just the shot selection and editing ; the movie , quite frankly , makes no sense . 
for most of " battlefield earth's " running time , i just didn't know what was happening . 
it didn't have anything to do with me finding the events stupid or illogical ( though they certainly are ) -- i really had no idea what the hell was going on . 
when i pieced the plot together later , it didn't look any better . 
here's how much of a disaster this is : " battlefield earth " is already the worst movie of the year , and it's going to take something really , really inept to top it . 
the only thing we can take comfort in about the film is that no one will be suckered into joining the church of scientology because of it . 
in fact , i'd think that hubbard's cult would want to distance themselves from this bomb as fast as possible . 
that'll teach me to give into bad movie syndrome again . 

there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last . 
george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy . 
return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films . 
the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone . 
instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears . 
even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around . 
with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman . 
return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back . 
luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine . 
their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt . 
it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play . 
from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch . 
as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor . 
so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks . 
there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader . 
return of the jedi has some interesting elements . 
the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted . 
from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films . 
not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved . 
on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects . 
in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch . 
the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films . 
by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas . 
the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific . 
as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for . 
newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars . 
although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment . 
with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang . 
congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come . 
 , 

the deer hunter , directed by michael cimino , is truly one of the greatest movies ever made . 
a captivating drama about the lives of a group of friends from a small russian-american pennsylvania community , the deer hunter promises to be one of those movies that you will never forget . 
in this academy award winner for best picture of 1978 , outstanding performances are turned in by all actors , and cimino's brilliant directing provides the perfect vision into the character's lives . 
the first act of the film provides us with an inside look into the lives of a group of men from a small community who work and hang out together . 
michael , portrayed perfectly by robert de niro , is shown early on as the natural leader of the group . 
after a days work , the men leave their jobs at a factory to head down to the local bar , where john ( george dzundza ) works . 
three of the men , michael , steven ( john savage ) , and nick ( christopher walken ) will be leaving shortly for vietnam , but not before steven gets married . 
after the marriage , the group , including axel ( chuck aspegren ) , spend one last day on a hunting trip , one of their favorite past-times . 
this sequence of events enables us to view the lifestyle of a normal group of men , who will be suddenly and permanently affected by the ravages and separations of war . 
the wedding scenes , although criticized by many as being quite long , actually enhance even more the purpose of the first act . 
the outstanding performances by de niro , walken , streep , savage , and cazale , who died very shortly after the filming of the movie was completed , really begin to shine through and promise not to halt in the near future . 
the second act of the movie begins with the trio of men on the front lines in vietnam , stationed in a south vietnamese village being attacked by the viet cong . 
the men are eventually captured and held in a floating prison on a river . 
this prison , run by the v . c . , 
initiates the horrifying scenes in the movie , where the prisoners are forced to play russian roulette against each other . 
steven , who is emotionally marred by this turn of events , is secluded in a tiger cage with water up to his face when he refuses to participate . 
michael shows his leadership again by convincing nick that the only way that steven will survive is if the two friends play against each other , and moreover , they must play with 3 bullets in the gun . 
personally , i felt that de niro's absolutely gripping portrayal really was displayed in a brilliant way in these and the following scenes . 
the men are eventually able to escape , but are separated . 
michael is able to get steven , who ends up losing his legs , to medical care , while nick finds his way to saigon and a u . s . army hospital . 
michael returns home and does not feel at all like a hero . 
he wants to avoid the celebrations and recognition that his friends would like to bestow upon him . 
he assumes that nick is still lost in vietnam . 
the third act concentrates more on walken's character , who eventually stumbles upon a small gambling operation where the game is , again , russian roulette . 
only in this game , you play for money . 
michael has learned that nick is possibly still alive and returns to saigon to attempt to find him . 
the two narrowly find each other at the russian roulette games , but do not link up until michael discovers nick participating in the games and tries to bring him home . 
a very emotional , and , for many , a very disturbing movie , the deer hunter is a truly magnificent movie that should not be missed . 
the greatest performances possible are turned in by all actors , and cimino's directing , which is considered to be at his all-time best in this film , is equally dazzling . 
do not miss this film , it will captivate and astound you . 

m : i-2 , the sequel to mission impossible , is a james bond wannabe film , but it fails to even come close to that film in wit , humor , and entertainment value . 
it tries to be a spy/romance movie , but without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses . 
it is a film that prefers techie gadgets to anything human . 
the coolest thing about this movie , was all the holes it had in its story and the most trite thing about the movie , was the usage of doves throughout as peace symbols . 
the film plays as if it was a wet fantasy dream about techie violence . 
except for the choreographed action sequences , the film was dull for three-quarters of its time , filled with too many dead spots in its story to garner concern about its wooden characters or the superficial romance that developed . 
as for the action scenes , they might look good to those who are converts to violence in their films , but their advertisement for sadistic responses , is nothing short of mindless cartoon violence , which makes it very difficult to sit back and applaud without feeling put off by the gratuitous cruelty seen . 
m : i-2 opens and closes with fast-paced action scenes , but it is hard to get past the middle part which just drags on in banal dialogue . 
the film looks as if it had been invaded by a computer virus , at that point . 
the only thing that kept me awake , was the horrible music composed by hans zimmer that became very loud at any of the film's supposedly momentous action scenes and seemed to make an uninteresting scene even more noticeable in the wrong way . 
it's a mega-buck film adapted from a popular high-tech gadgetry tv series . 
but its artistic success is an impossible task to accomplish because it hired the wrong director and actors to star in it , and it failed to produce a story that had any substance . 
john woo ( " broken arrow " / " face/off " ) is good at doing car chases , choreographed fights with midair flips and kung-fu kicks , slo-mo shots of two guns blazing , and of fire explosions , but he just can't seem to handle dialogue and suspense . 
the star of the film and co-producer , tom cruise , and his romantic interest , thandie newton , are miscast . 
cruise is no james bond and looks more like a yuppie than a superhero in his stylish long hair and innocuous smile , as he tries to carry off this macho role , while thandie is not an action-film girl , and seems like a fish- out-of-water in this one . 
their romance didn't work , not only was it tepid and not sexy , but it wasn't convincing . 
the film opens with dizzying speed , perhaps with the hope that a befuddled audience is its best bet for success . 
we will be in three different locations instantaneously : sydney , the american southwest , and seville . 
first , we are in sydney , australia , where a scientist with a muffled russian accent , dr . nekhorvich ( rade ) , mentions that he created a deadly killer virus called chimera and an antidote for it . 
he also mentions that every hero needs a worthy villain . 
which explains the film's mythic theme . . . as 
we enter the world of comic book myths on good and evil . 
the one who played the villain , dougray scott , does so in a one-dimensional gruff tone , which did not distinguish him in that role . 
at least , if the film got the villain part right , it might have had some fun with this nonsense . 
soon the diabolical scientist is on a plane talking to someone he trusts called dimitri , but then the plane is taken over by terrorists who set it on automatic pilot and crash it into the rocky mountains . 
before they crash the plane and parachute out of it , the one who was posing as dimitri , turns out to be sean ambrose ( scott ) , a rogue member of the imf , which is a cia-like clone . 
he steals the package with the antidote , peels off a latex mask , which is a replica of the hero of the story , ethan hunt ( cruise ) , who had posed as dimitri to the scientist before and had thereby gained his trust . 
sean and his group of terrorists carry out this attack because they plan a virus plague on the world and then to sell the victims the antidote at marked up prices . 
we already saw the gimmick of peeling masks used in face/off and in the original mission impossible , which as convoluted a plot as that film had , it was still a superior film to this sequel . 
woo has run this peeling mask routine into the ground , as it is used so often in this film by both sides , so much so , that it blurs any ethical character differences between good guy or villain . 
it makes it seem as if anyone could be another character , which distorts the reality of the film and makes it impossible for the film to make much sense . 
next we are in a mountain range in the american southwest , and ethan is on vacation , hanging by his fingertips while climbing and looking cool , when a helicopter with his boss anthony hopkins aboard , delivers via a rocket launcher , a pair of talking sunglasses . 
hunt learns his next mission is to retrieve the chimera package and he is allowed to pick two regular imf agents to help , billy baird ( john polson ) and luther stickell ( ving rhames ) , with luther running a high-gadget computer , but he also must get a jewel thief named nyah hall ( thandie ) to join his team . 
he is told , as an incentive to recruit her , all her criminal charges will be dropped . 
hopkins then signs off with the tag line : this message will self-destruct in five seconds . 
actually , with the departure of hopkins , it was this disposable film that actually self-destructed at this point . 
in seville , hunt recruits nyah into the team in the middle of a jewel heist and a subsequent car chase , where he nearly runs her audi sports car over the side of a mountain road . 
he also falls for her when this was only supposed to be a business deal , and learns that she is valuable because her ex-boyfriend was sean ambrose and that he still wants to f * ck her . 
the imf team then inject a location tracer chip into her to spot sean so she can go f * ck him , as she leads them to his hide-out in the seaside of australia in which he shares with his sneering villainous cohort , the south african , hugh stamp ( richard roxburgh ) . 
robert towne , the screenwriter , who contributed to the first " mission , " who is noted for doing " chinatown " -- writes a colorless , pedestrian script , one that fails even to be funny in a camp way . 
the terrorists , who aim to rule the world , are interested in owning 51 percent in a biotech company and in getting stock options , as they plan to infect sydney with the virus and have their company sell the antidote , insuring that they will make billions on the stock . 
ethan comes to the rescue of the world and of nyah , with his only conflict being who is more important to save first . 
ethan does this rescue against all odds , as he finds a way to penetrate a security tight biotech company , fight it out with sean and the other terrorists , and rescue nyah , who injected herself with the virus to hinder sean's getting it , as the only way to transport the virus is through another person or from the vaccine needle . 
ethan rescues her by doing stunt riding on a motorcycle , using kick-boxing , winning a shootout , throwing a full john wayne supply of grenades at the terrorists , making some more use out of that peeling mask bit , and by being completely fearless and larger than life , while he kick's everyone's ass . 
if i was only entertained by this . . . i 
could have lived with it . 
but this film was so badly made , that it was like watching a highlight film of a basketball game , seeing only the slam-dunks , but with the game itself being excluded from the telecast . 
in any case , this is a critic-proof film , and will in all probability do well in the box office , as it was made to appeal to all the demographics who find commercial ventures like this one easy to buy into . 

back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman . 
that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . . 
last action hero . 
but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . " 
if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe . 
you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film . 
at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in . 
to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not . 
after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting . 
they encounter another ship . 
they board it . 
alien spiders attack them . 
they return to their ship . 
the other one explodes . 
they land on a deserted planet . 
and so on . 
an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on . 
the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that . 
for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy . 
in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . . 
digital effects . 
but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet . 
entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game . 
apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ? 
but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious . 
you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy . 
new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount . 
i don't think so . 
in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 

it's ironic that the best films in cinema history are invariably the original director's cut of the film . 
films such as aliens , the abyss , the wild bunch , blade runner , and terminator 2 are all prime examples of a filmmaker's integrity , later chopped up or mucked with by the studio . 
the advent of the dvd format has provided a more accessible way to get these original cuts to the public and provide to film freaks like myself the ability to become further enraptured by the extension of such classic films . 
the dvd release of the original international version of luc besson's 1995 masterpiece the professional , which is known as l ? on around the world , is a prime example of how a good film can become an instant classic as a director's cut . 
for years , i have heard of an " international " version available only in laserdisc format , which has eluded me for years . 
i even bought a laserdisc player from my uncle don for 100 bucks just to watch certain directors' cuts - including l ? on . 
but after countless searches in laserdisc stores , i could never find it . 
until now . 
the film follows the story of l ? on , played by jean reno , a professional hit man for an italian mob crew run by danny aiello . 
he lives next door to a ferociously independent 12-year-old girl named mathilda - played by then newcomer natalie portman , whose father is involved in drugs and crooked cops . 
one day , a crew of the cops - lead by gary oldman in an over-the-top performance - kills her entire family while mathilda is out buying groceries . 
taking pity on her , l ? on hides her in his apartment when she returns to save her life . 
mathilda learns of l ? on's hit man profession and decides to follow in l ? on's footsteps as a " cleaner . " 
she then falls in love with him and manages to reawaken emotions within l ? on he has kept locked away as part of his profession . 
at this point , the differences in the american version and the international version really kick in . 
the international version contains an additional 24 minutes of footage that pertains directly to the relationship of l ? on and mathilda , footage that american censors deemed " too explicit . " 
i assume that american censors feel that defining character development is too much for american audiences to handle . 
the best part of this extra footage is that gives better understanding of both mathilda's and l ? on's motivations pertaining to later actions involving oldman and his crew of bad cops . 
there's even a previously unseen cameo by the great french actor jean-hugues anglade - star of queen margot , besson's la femme nikita , and killing zoe . 
with these additional scenes replaced , l ? on and matilda's relationship brings you emotionally closer to the film and draws stronger bonds between the characters that were murky in the american version . 
the most ironic thing about the international version of the film is that with the inclusion of the missing scenes , the film becomes primarily a heavy , emotional drama punctuated with big action scenes at the beginning and the end of the film . 
the film betters reflects the serious drama of french cinema but is laced with pieces reflecting the brutality of american cinema . 
my advice to everyone out there is to throw away your copy of the professional , throw down twenty bucks , and pick up this newly restored cinematic masterpiece . 
director/writer : luc besson producer : luc besson , claude besson starring : jean reno , natalie portman , gary oldman , danny aiello 

would you believe -- in real life , i mean -- that if you were julia roberts , that you'd be the ugly underdog to your sister , the creepy catherine zeta-jones ? 
let me tell you what reality is . 
reality is that you are megastar julia fricking roberts and your brother is eric roberts , and he picks up whatever crumbs of stardom fall off your coattails as you blaze across the sky in a golden chariot . 
that's reality . 
america's sweethearts is the opposite of reality , a train wreck that tries to sell julia as a scruffy also-ran , presumably because she wears horn-rimmed glasses and used to be overweight ( uh-huh ) . 
the plot follows two married , mega-movie stars , gwen and eddie ( zeta-jones and poor , poor john cusack , whose material gets worse every year ) , on the eve of their new star vehicle's release , a film called time over time . 
the only problem : gwen and eddie have gone through a nasty separation , and the press and public have not been forgiving ( think meg and dennis ) . 
gosh , and the director has vanished with the film , holding the only print hostage . 
veteran pr agent lee ( billy crystal ) is called upon to clean up the mess , throwing a press junket in the nevada desert to woo them with the story of a possible reconciliation between the gwen and eddie , presumably distracting the stupid , stupid film critics into forgetting they haven't seen the movie at all . 
 ( note to sony : any studio executive that thinks this plot is going to win points with the reviewing press needs to check into rehab . ) 
and did i mention gwen's sister kiki ( roberts ) is along for the ride ? 
and that she and eddie just might fall in love along the way ? 
oh billy , you're a scamp ! 
the script you've co-written with peter tolan ( what planet are you from ? 
and bedazzled -- need i say more ? ) is a roast of hollywood and celebrity , sure , but it's not a funny one . 
yes , crystal tells us , hollywood is lying to our faces ! 
if you are surprised by this , you might want to check on your subscription to people magazine . 
it's about to expire . 
aside from a scant few zingers ( yeah , se ? or winces rules ! ) , 
america's sweethearts' jokes aren't funny , its pace is choppy , and the whole affair comes off as a vanity project -- not for headlining star julia roberts -- but for billy crystal to deliver a bunch of lame punch lines that he wrote himself . 
i didn't time it ( the movie's not that bad ) , but it's crystal who really has the most screen time and is the unequivocal focus of the film . 
bad move , billy -- your jokes suck . 
the crotch humor is outpaced only by the meanness of the movie's gags -- and with unsubtle sexual innuendo dripping from every scene , how this movie earned a pg-13 rating is a mystery to me . 
julia overcame a lot of spiteful writing and acting to make my best friend's wedding into a winning film , but not even that 90-tooth smile can save her here . 
obviously aware of the ugliness before him , director joe roth turns to goofy supporting characters like hank azaria ( as a lisping spaniard ) , christopher walken ( the insane time over time director ) , and alan arkin ( a new age guru in a fright wig ) to crack wise . 
none of the stereotypes is successful except for walken ; azaria comes off as a preening queen when he's supposed to be macho . 
as for roth , in case you don't know , went from direcing revenge of the nerds ii to launching his own movie studio , revolution , which produced this work . 
he's back behind the camera for the first time in 11 years . 
it'll probably be another 11 before he's back again . 
i could drone on about how america's sweethearts will only appeal to the mouth-breathing morons who talk on their cell phones during the movies , but that would get old . 
instead , i'll settle for discussing the movie's worst sin : that sweethearts is painfully contrived and wholly unbelievable , not just in its plot but in its sentiment . 
every single character in this film ( with the arguable exception of kiki ) is simply hateful , and putting them in a romantic comedy is a waste of a bunch of villains . 
when you leave the theater , you'll ask yourself , too : why would i want any of these jerks to be happy ? 

the makers of jurassic park & the director of speed conjure up a storm ! 
 ( reviewed at eng wah's new jubilee cineplex at ang mo kio ) 
 " unlike earthquakes , their fury is precise . 
unlike hurricanes , their reach is unlimited . 
unlike fires , there is no way to combat them . 
unlike floods , their terror is sudden . " 
- excerpt from twister production notes 
i'm sure many of us living in this part of the world have never seen tornadoes ( or twisters ) before . 
i for one , have only seen the devastating effects and footage of tornadoes from news reports on tv and personally , i feel tornado-caused destruction comes no where near the destruction caused by hurricanes and earthquakes . . . . . . . . that is until i saw twister . 
the destruction caused by twisters may be precise ( not widespread but it moves very fast and its path of destruction is unpredictable . 
it will suck in cars , houses , livestock , etc . . . . . 
basically anything in its path that is not firmly rooted to the ground and in twister , you'll get to see all this - close up ! 
twister tells a tale about a group of storm chasers . 
these people are basically out-of-their-mind and for the sake of obtaining data on twister-occurrences , they risk their lives by literally chasing tornadoes , trying to get as close as they can . . . . . that 
is if the tornado does not suddenly decide to change its path towards them ! 
jo ( helen hunt ) is the leader of this pack of kamikazes . 
while they are gearing up for the mother-of-all-storms as predicted by satellite recon , bill ( bill paxton ) , a former co- leader of the team returns to settle some divorce papers with jo . 
apparently , bill has left his rogue-ish days for greener and more practical pastures - as a television weatherman . 
he catches up with his old-self and follows the pack like the good ole days , bringing his wife-to-be melissa ( jamie gertz ) along , a city-bred woman toting around with a handphone . 
jo has finally implemented bills initial idea of a device called dorothy which measurement's of a twister may lead to a better understanding on how tornadoes are formed so that a more reliable early-warning system can be implemented . 
the problem is , the device has to be placed very near the twister , and in its path ( which is practically unpredictable ) of destruction in order for it to function . 
to add to their current challenge , there is another group of storm chasers that is corporation-funded led by jonas ( cary elwes ) and they too have a similar device . 
thus begins the race ; jo's cheap government equipment with beaten-up vehicles against jonas's high-tech computers and satellite link-ups with their sleek , black all-terrain vans . 
plot wise , there are not really anything to shout about . 
twister is as predictable as any summer box-office hit can get . 
there is the danger of the twister , the competition with jonas^os more well-off team and of course , the settling of differences between jo and bill ( this part gives the film its human substance ) . 
helen hunt , bill paxton and the rest of the actors/actresses give only average performances and all of them take back seat to the main thespian in this movie - the twister itself ! 
thanks to the impressive digital effects by ilm ( lucasfilm's industrial light and magic ) , we get to see the terror and destruction caused by tornadoes up close ; from stripping barns and houses to lifting up livestock ! 
jan de bont once again proves his visual abiility ( thanks to his years of experience as a director of photography for action films ) for action sequences . 
like his previous film speed , the tornado sequences ( which are essentially the action sequences ) are well visualised and edited . 
audiences will be holding tight to their chairs everytime a tornado comes on screen ! 
the surround sound effects sure does help a lot in stressing the terror of a twister ! 
 ( the cinema must at the very least support digital sound to fully appreciate this ) twister is definitely an effect-dependent movie . 
now that id4 fever has begun to reside , and people are getting bored of watching will smith whoop et's ass for the umpteenth time . . . . . . twister is your sure bet of 7 bucks well spent ! 
watch it in a good theatre . . . please . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 

robert benton has assembled a stellar , mature cast for his latest feature , twilight , a film noir mystery set amid the fading stars of hollywood . 
paul newman stars as retired detective harry ross . 
harry has spent the last couple of years doing odd jobs for jack and catherine ames ( gene hackman and susan sarandon ) , a pair of married actors who have fallen from the limelight . 
when jack sends him on a routine delivery job , however , the old instincts kick in . 
soon , harry is wading through a mystery where friendships and lives are on the line , and he no longer knows who to trust . 
there are plenty of familiar faces throughout twilight , in addition to newman , hackman and sarandon . 
james garner plays raymond hope , a former cop and one of harry's best friends . 
stockard channing plays verna , harry's former partner , and possibly a former love interest . 
reese witherspoon is mel , the distrustful daughter of the ames' , and liev schrieber is her scuzzy boyfriend . 
giancarlo esposito appears as harry's bumbling detective protigi , and john spencer is a suspicious police captain . 
with a cast like that , it's almost worth watching twilight just to stargaze . 
luckily , there's more to the film than some sort of actor's recognition ceremony . 
twilight has a solid film noir-ish plot . 
it may not have as many twists and turns as some of the classics , but it has much more than a lot of what passes for film these days . 
the major cast members all deliver strong performances , as can be expected of their caliber . 
however , none of them have that little extra oomph which would make them memorable . 
the supporting cast is enjoyable , if a little underdrawn . 
stockard channing's character , in particular , is a cipher . 
there's more to her character than the film takes the time to describe . 
it's a minor , but irritating , flaw . 
with a solid cast , and a good plot , there's a lot to recommend about twilight . 
it's biggest flaw is actually its short running time . 
at a slim 94 minutes , there's a lot of stuff that's packed into an awfully small package . 
still , the chance to see newman , sarandon and hackman working together is worth a cramp or two . 

there is a rule when it comes to movies . 
a sequel is never as good as the original . 
there are very few exceptions to this rule , and texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation is not one of them . 
now if you also take into consideration that the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movie , and that this isn't even the first sequel to it , you have a recipe for a very painful viewing experience . 
don't be fooled by the presence of up and coming talents matthew mcconaughey ( a time to kill ) and renee zellweger ( jerry maguire ) . 
they made this movie before they were stars . 
judging by their performances they also made it before they took any acting lessons . 
it's a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing in this turkey . 
apparently the producers of this film realized just how bad it was , because it sat unreleased for years until someone decided that they might be able to capitalize off the success of mcconaughey and zellweger . 
apparently the two young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light of day . 
and i don't blame them , they would have been better off if this had been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them . 
unfortunately for them it is a horror film in which zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character . 
while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mechanical brace on his leg that he controls with a television remote control . 
 ( hey , don't say i didn't warn you . ) 
to make matters worse , leatherface , the chainsaw wielding maniac , who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best of times , has now become a full blown cross-dresser , and spends the entire movie in drag . 
there is a plot to this movie but it isn't worth mentioning . 
let's just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are in the typical wrong place at the wrong time and are left to the mercy of remote control man ( mcconaughey ) and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half-witted sidekick . 
man , i can't get over just how bad this movie is . 
this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities . 
even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn't enough to hold my interest for more than 2 seconds . 
the writing is bad , the direction is even worse , but both of those things look good in comparison to the acting . 
this is the sort of movie that they should make people in prison watch . 
a guarantee you , if criminals thought that they would be subjected to this film they would never break the law again . 

the saint was actually a little better than i expected it to be , in some ways . 
in this theatrical remake of the television series the saint , and its series sequel the return of the saint , val kilmer plays simon templar , an elusive thief who makes a living by stealing things from others for others . 
this movie closely resembles a james bond flick . 
it has the classic bond symbols : a man who can do just about anything and get away with it , a woman whom the man persues , a villain out to achieve something for himself who kills anyone to reach this goal . 
kilmer actually provides a rather good role in this movie , although at times you are left to ponder how he actually gets out of the many tight situations . 
the movie begins in his childhood in a strict school run by catholic priests . 
as a young boy , kilmer's character enjoyed magic and would often journey away from his schoolwork . 
that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book and demands that the young boy proclaim his name , that of a catholic saint . 
he refuses to do so and instead announces who he wishes to be . 
this leads to a devestating mistake , which is something that will stay in his mind throughout his life . 
kilmer's first mission that we are shown is to steal a microchip from ivan tretiak , played by rade serbedzija . 
during a press conference , he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault area , avoiding guards , cameras , and many other potential obstacles . 
once his mission is completed and he is safely home , the fee is paid . 
when he logs into his bank account and finds that he is only a few million dollars short of $50 million , he decides to carry out only one more mission , then retire . 
dr . emma russell , portrayed by elisabeth shue , has discovered a way to produce energy by way of cold fusion . 
this new advancement would change the world and save thousands of lives in the areas of russia , where millions are without heat and are freezing to death . 
the only problem is , tretiak would like to have this for himself and use it to gain power amongst the people . 
this presents the option for kilmer to achieve his goal . 
tretiak hires him to steal the equations , small pieces of paper , from shue . 
one of the enjoyable features in the film is the disguises that kilmer dawns to complete his missions . 
they are very convincing , not only to the characters in the movie , but to us . 
kilmer utilizes one such disguise to lure shue's character into getting to know him even more , which would provide him a means of stealing the energy formula . 
when the two meet , and end up having a sensual experience , kilmer's character is seemingly falling in love with emma russell , as she is falling in love with kilmer's alter-ego , a traveling artist . 
yet , he must reach his goal of $50 million , which requires him to steal the energy formula , putting his feelings aside . 
shue's character is eventually able to track down simon templar by putting the pieces ( the names of the catholic saints ) together , something no one else is able to do . 
when she finds him , they are left to team up and reclaim the energy formulas from tretiak . 
the saint is very action-packed , with few slow points . 
the sound was very well done and added to the many intense moments . 
along the course of the movie , there are even a few , although brief moments of comedy . 
these moments are almost always thanks to kilmer's extraneous , very convincing disguises and personalities . 
all in all , a rather enjoyable movie with nearly non-stop action . 

trekkies , roger nygard's energetic and hilarious documentary , brings viewers into the world of the star trek conventions . 
the beauty of the film is that it is good old fashion fun for trekkies and non-fans alike . 
 ( the film generally writes off the trekkies vs . trekker polemic as not worth arguing about . ) 
the good-spirited movie trekkies easily forces even the most cynical viewer into fits of uncontrollable , loud giggles , yet the picture treats its subject matter with respect and a certain awe . 
denise crosby , who played tasha yar on " star trek : the next generation , " serves as the host . 
in the opening credits the movie reminds us that trekkies are the only fan group listed in the oxford english dictionary ( oed ) . 
 ( the oed cites a february , 1976 caption in the " new yorker " as the first recorded usage of the word . ) 
unless you've been to the conventions , i posit that you have no idea of the dedication of some of the fans . 
one pointed out , apologetically , that the stripe on his new uniform was slightly inaccurate . 
others talked about how many star trek conventions they had attended , several dozen being typical and hundreds not unheard of . 
my personal favorite fan is sir speedy photocopying worker barbara adams . 
arguably the most famous of all the trekkies , she wears her uniform every waking hour as many die-hard fans do . 
her claim to fame is that , as a juror on the whitewater trial , she wore it in court as well . 
 " every day i would walk past the reporters with a vulcan-like stoicism , " she says , describing her way of dealing with the crowd of reporters who became obsessed with her obsession . 
she doesn't quite understand all of the uproar . 
 " i'm an officer of the federation 24 hours a day , " she reminds us . 
her fealty to her hobby approaches that of a religious faith . 
along with the laugher the show evokes , there is an equal measure of sincere appreciation for people with such loyalty . 
and their infectious joy provokes a certain envy of their enjoyment . 
few other avocations could give this much satisfaction . 
these people are having the time of their lives . 
 ( for the record , i'm not a star trek fan although i have seen some of the movies . ) 
the film interviews the various star trek series's stars as well as its fans . 
the stars had thought the convention idea was a lark and would soon fade , but over twenty years later , the conventions are still going strong . 
filled with anecdotes , the show talks about the happenings at the various conventions . 
at one , the actor who plays q was so sick that he thought he would have to cancel . 
after appearing briefly , he drank some water and left . 
they decided to auction off his half-empty glass , joking that it had the " q virus . " 
the guy who won the bidding immediately drank the water and screamed to the crowd that he now had the q virus too . 
with dedication comes a certain amount of stupidity . 
not just flitting among people , the documentary takes the time to let you get to know the trekkies . 
one guy is a trekkie cross-dresser , another dresses her cat , and then there is the dentist . 
the dentist has his entire office made up to look like a star trek set . 
he , his oral hygienists , his receptionist , his wife , and his kids wear the outfits all of the time . 
it appears that his workers are permitted to take them off when they go home , but not his family . 
for variety , he and his family do change characters from time to time . 
he says his patients like it . 
well , there was this one complainer , but he had a problem with his bill anyway . 
there are summer schools for klingon with ph . d . linguists to teach the language . 
hamlet is now available in klingon , albeit perhaps not at your local bookstore , and they are working on translating the bible . 
they even sell united federation passports that are real enough that trekkies have used them to fool customs , even u . s . customs . 
the movie bogs down only briefly when it tries to argue the series's larger meaning about diversity and humanitarian concerns . 
sandwiched in-between the levity , the switch in tone doesn't work . 
the incessantly up-beat film ends with a singing elvis impersonator . 
he fits right in . 
trekkies runs a breezy 1 : 26 . 
it is not rated but would be pg for brief sexual references and would be fine for all ages . 

at one point during brian de palma's crime epic scarface , the radiant michelle pfeiffer turns to a ranting al pacino and pops a question that the audience has no doubt been wanting to ask for themselves : " can't you stop saying 'fuck' all the time ? " 
fucking good question , that . 
it may not be an honour that instills the filmmakers with pride , but as far as i can tell oliver stone's script contains the said expletitive more times than any other film in cinema history . 
yet it would be a shame if bad language is all de palma's scarface is remembered for , because this is a damn fine gangstar flick . 
the overall structure is similar to howard hawks' 1932 original , but this time the scene has switched to miami , florida and our anti-hero's chosen vice is cocaine traffiking . 
pacino , sporting a thick cuban accent , gives one the best performances of his career ( golden globe nominated ) as tony montana , a cuban refugee with a criminal past who flees castro and comes to america to live the american dream . 
and live it out he does , with lashings of violence , abuse , murder and the funny white powder . 
from his earliest jobs as a drug runner for various middlemen , tony montana makes it clear to everyone he meets that he's not a man to be fucked ( sorry ) . 
soon he's the king of the cocaine heap , but his hot head and an increasingly out of control drug addiction prove his undoing . 
 " never do your own stash " , warns one character early in the film . 
as sure as night follows day , the emperor of miami eventually falls . 
writer oliver stone and director brian de palma make an explosive combination here . 
stone's script offers solid storytelling and some fine character development . 
montana is fascinating ; uneducated but calculating , a straight shooter who speaks from the heart ; an ambitious , violent man yet one with a conscience . 
a man fiercely protective of his beautiful 20 year old sister , not wanting her to be sucked into the glitzy , dangerous world which he inhabits . 
pacino is dynamite , taking to the role with a brooding , bristling energy which in his more recent films has often degenerated into just simple overracting . 
pfeiffer also registers strongly as the gangstar mole with no inner life . 
only once does tony express real affection for her and his desire to have children , and even then you sense all he really wants is a regular screw and a beautiful object to show off to his friends , and she's happy to oblige . 
this isn't as meaty a role for pfieffer as sharon stone's was in casino , but its an effective one nonetheless and she aquits herself well . 
as director , de palma sets up a number of dramatic scenes with his typical stylistic brauva . 
the escalating tension he creates in various mob situations - a drug deal gone wrong , an assination attempt - is often thrilling , and in this respect he is every bit the equal of scorese and coppola . 
where he differs from , say , coppola's godfather trilogy is in his overall treatment . 
coppola gives his crime sagas an operatic sweep , whereas in scarface de palma opts for a grittier feel . 
and it perfectly suits the material . 
the only major botch is giorgio moroder's mostly crap synthesier score . 
it's just not right , and unfortunately compromises the impact of some otherwise good scenes . 
as expected , scarface is very violent at times , but you shouldn't be watching gangster movies if that upsets you . 
at over two and a half hours in length it's a true epic , and if you're a fan of the genre you'll love f * * k-filled minute of it . 

bruce barth's mellow piano plays in the background as conflict erupts in a little country town of florida . 
ulee's gold feels like another fonda creation- on golden pond : it has a soft , calm surface with a tempest brewing underneath , the cinematography creates a place of gold , yellow , and olive colors , the music is stirring and tranquil . 
both deal with the hardships of family life . 
peter fonda gives his undoubtedly best performance in victor nu ? ez's new film and patricia richardson ( home improvement star ) shows she is worthy of big screen attention . 
nu ? ez is probably independent film's greatest asset , along with john sayles , and he proves his talent with a slow pace and undulating , heavy tension . 
peter fonda's performance borrows from his father henry fonda's in on golden pond- there is a great vulnerability that he gives the character ulee jackson and just like his father , peter fonda is quiet , emotional , and weary in this exceptional role . 
ulee jackson , the film's protagonist , is struggling . 
pressure is mounting at the wrong time . 
he is a beekeeper and this is his " busy " season . 
he has to deal with his two granddaughters' needs and erupting hormones , he is forced to pick up his daughter-in-law in orlando who is strung out on drugs and take care of her , and he is faced with a challenging task : unsettled business his son , who is now in prison , has left behind . 
he finds his daughter-in-law , helen , with the two men his son robbed a bank with . 
she has apparently told these two men that the money that resulted from the robbery is with her husband . 
that is why he got caught- the police found him with the money . 
now the two men are demanding they get the cash , or they will come after ulee's two granddaughters . 
ulee promises he will bring it to them and takes a deranged helen back to his serene little home where her two children that she abandoned scrutinize her with contempt . 
ulee is a man who lost his pals in war- he was the only man in his platoon to survive . 
he refuses help from anybody and does not respond to affectionate gestures . 
he is a bitter , closed-off man whose only passion is his beekeeping , his granddaughters , and his dead wife . 
connie , his next door neighbor , finally gets through to him with friendly favors . 
she is a nurse and helps helen get through her turmoil with drugs . 
ulee's gold is the story of a man who believes he is fine as he is- until the truth is revealed painfully to him : he is cold and unfeeling . 
of course , in the end , ulee softens up , but his journey is absorbing and we have fallen in love with his tiredness and weariness . 
what is admirable about the movie is peter fonda's winning turn as ulee and the story that feels like nobody's fool but , in the end , ends up in a class of its own . 

quiz show , an almost perfectly accurate true story , is based upon the events of the popular television show of the mid-50's , " twenty-one " . 
on this trivial game show , contestants were placed in isolation booths and then answered questions corresponding to a category of their choice , on which they wagered an amount of points on . 
the game went on until a player reached twenty one points on felt they had earned enough points to win . 
but , after ratings began to fall when players were struggling to break the zero mark , the producers decided to fix the game by giving the answers to a contestant before the game began . 
quiz show illustrates the true stories of two particular contestants , herbie stempel and charles van doren . 
stempel ( john turturro ) , a former g . i . 
and your jewish man raising a family . 
stempel has been the reigning champion on " twenty-one " for many weeks and has accumulated thousands of dollars . 
in his mind , he is the best thing on television and the people love him . 
although , in the mind of the show's producers , herbie stempel is getting old . 
dan enright ( david paymer ) , in particular , feels that the people are tired of seeing a " jewish guy from queens with bad teeth " and that the kids need someone better to look up to . 
therefore , they need to find another contestant whom would be a worthy role model and the people will look up to and cheer to win . 
someone who can defeat stempel , even if they have to resort to cheating . 
enter charles van doren ( ralph fiennes ) , a well-educated professor from a widely recognized family . 
van doren had decided to try out for the game show " tic tac dough " because his friends thought he would be good at that sort of thing . 
but when albert freedman ( hank azaria ) , enright's assistant , spots van doren , the two decide that they have found their soon-to-be-ruler of the " twenty-one " kingdom . 
van doren is not too keen on the idea of receiving the answers ahead of time , so enright tells stempel that he is going to give the wrong answer , on purpose , in order to lose the game . 
after stempel loses the " throne " to van doren , he starts to feel cheated ( which he should ) . 
meanwhile , on his own , dick goodwin ( rob morrow ) , a harvard law graduate , has decided to start an investigation on " twenty-one " to try and find out if there have been any wrongdoings . 
his investigation yields shocking results and leads to a trial for enright and the others involved . 
quiz show is an extremely well done movie , and robert redford's direction is especially superb . 
the performances turned in by john turturro , ralph fiennes , and rob morrow are very good , although it seems that turturro stands out more than any . 
quiz show is also very precise when it comes to explicating the true events that inspired the film . 
definitely a film you should not miss . 

in 1994 , an insider's look at a scandal-ridden run for the democratic presidential nomination ( closely based on clinton's 1992 campaign ) was written anonymously ( former newsweek writer joe klein later claimed true authorship ) . 
now , the book , primary colors , has been made into a movie , directed by mike nichols , and , in light of recent presidential scandals , seems to be more relevant than ever . 
but the film is more than a diatribe against , or a paean in praise of , the president . 
it is a fascinating look at the political machinery , and the ethical quagmire , that surround modern politics . 
jack stanton ( john travolta ) is the governor of a small southern state running for the democratic presidential nomination . 
he is charismatic , but has several flaws which threaten to doom his campaign , and strains his relationship with his wife , susan ( emma thompson ) . 
the film is told from the point of view of henry burton ( adrian lester ) , grandson of a civil rights leader , who is swept away by stanton's ideals and helps to organize the campaign . 
he joins political strategist richard jemmons ( billy bob thornton , looking an awful lot like james carville ) , and campaign advisor daisy green ( maura tierney ) . 
governor stanton's past repeatedly pops up to haunt him , a fact that his chief rival , lawrence harris ( kevin cooney ) , consistently uses to his advantage . 
to help clean up the stanton campaign , jack and susan bring in an old friend , libby " the dustbuster " holden ( kathy bates ) . 
the acting throughout primary colors is superb . 
it would be worth seeing the movie for bates' wild performance alone . 
she enlivens the atmosphere with energy in a truly boisterous performance . 
travolta does a fair clinton impersonation as governor stanton , although his accent does stray a little . 
emma thompson delivers a strong performance as his suffering wife who can't let anything show that might hurt the presidential run . 
the problem with political movies is that they tend to alienate over half of their audience by promoting one side or the other , or else the movie is vague to the point of boredom . 
primary colors treads lightly on this issue . 
though stanton is clearly portrayed as a democrat , and there are a few minor barbs thrown in the way of republicans , the movie touches on few actual political issues . 
in fact , most of the " bad guys " are fellow democrats on the same road to the white house . 
rather than issues , the film is primarily concerned about scandals and spin control . 
although the film strays into some obviously non-clinton territory , it is difficult to completely separate it from reality ( particularly when certain scenes seem to highlight the president's current troubles ) . 
primary colors' chief problem is its length . 
it runs about 15 minutes too long . 
there are some scenes which could have easily been cut . 
for example , midway through the film , the candidate gives a speech to an assembly of laid off machinists . 
the scene's only apparent purpose is to establish stanton's character , which has already been done in similar scenes earlier in the film . 
the extra length isn't long enough nor tiring enough to be annoying , but it mars an otherwise excellent film . 
republicans , democrats , and political agnostics should all be able to find something to like in primary colors . 
it's a funny , and at some times shocking , look at the modern political process . 

200 cigarettes takes place on new year's eve 1981 . 
monica , played by martha plimpton is having a huge new year's party . 
everyone in town is trying to get there , but some are caught up in other things . 
this is the basic plot of 200 cigarettes . 
as we meet the characters headed towards the party , we are sent into many subplots which are unoriginal , and not interesting at all . 
this disappointed me greatly . 
the film should have been more about the party than the people trying to get there in my opinion . 
lucy , played by courtney love , is with kevin , played by paul rudd . 
the two are in a relationship that is more of a friendship , but starts to blossom into something more than that . 
this subplot is extremely boring and dull , and i am getting quite sick of plots like that . 
janeane garofalo is involved in another subplot , dealing with kevin . 
she plays ellie , an ex-girlfriend of kevin's . 
this subplot is completely a waste of garofalo's talent . 
there was no point to it at all , and it was hardly even in the movie . 
when lucy runs into a bartender , played by ben affleck , another subplot is formed . 
the bartender is invited by lucy to come to monica's party . 
at the bar , he runs into two more girls . 
the girls are played by angela featherstone and nicole parker , but unfortunately , due to the terrible acting of both of them , i don't even remember their characters names . 
ben affleck is a good actor , but his character doesn't go anywhere so he doesn't have much screen time to give a good performance . 
featherstone and parker are horrible in their roles , and they are part of the reason the film is so bad . 
christina ricci plays val , and gaby hoffman plays stephie . 
the two girls are trying to get to the party but are extremely lost . 
they meet some guys and end up going around with them all night . 
this subplot was alright , but it was quite annoying with stephie's accent . 
hoffman did an okay job of acting , but ricci did good . 
she was underused , considering she is such a wonderful actress . 
another subplot in the film is the relationship between cindy , played by goldie hawn's daughter , and jack , played by jay mohr . 
jack is an actor who doesn't care about the girls he goes out with , he just likes dates for one night , and the next day he doesn't . 
kate hudson is a huge klutz . 
she gets herself into very funny situations , that are the funniest parts in the entire movie . 
they are probably the only funny parts in the entire movie as well . 
this subplot could have been used more , mainly due to hudson's performance . 
mohr wasn't good , but he wasn't bad . 
he was just alright , which i didn't find acceptable . 
there is not much to say about the performances in the film . 
none of the characters are developed or shown enough to really tell if the acting is good or not . 
the only performances that i can judge are christina ricci's as always good performance , kate hudson's funny role , courtney love's mediocre performance , and paul rudd's annoying and overused performance . 
i was hoping for a little more out of jaw mohr , ben affleck , casey affleck , gaby hoffman , dave chapelle , and especially out of janeane garofalo . 
the two strongest things in the film were the great soundtrack and the original costumes . 
martha plimpton and christina ricci had very different and original outfits which made me feel like i was in the year 1981 . 
the soundtrack is full of 1980's tunes , ranging from " i want candy " to " tainted love . " 
the songs in the movie also helped create the feel that you were back in the 1980s . 
during the film , i often found myself asking the questions , " is there a reason to this ? 
is there any moral story ? 
is there a point ? 
are any of the events going on in the film necessary ? 
do i care what lucy and kevin are going through ? " 
the movie is extremely boring , and by the time they reached eleven-o-clock , one hour before midnight , i could not wait for the movie to be over . 
the plot is okay , but the subplots make it terrible . 
maybe if the film was about the party , not about the people at the party , it could have been a lot better . 
the bottom line : just like a slasher movie , this ? 80s comedy is just one too many . 

are we victims of fate in life or can we create our own destiny ? 
director/writer brad anderson seems to be saying yes to both questions in his witty film " next stop wonderland " . 
the two main characters , alan and erin , spend the entire movie in each other's orbit , catching glimpses of one another , yet not quite connecting until the inevitable conclusion . 
is it fate that keeps them near each other and ultimately puts them together ? 
does this predestination carry over to all aspects of life ? 
as the film starts , erin castleton ( hope davis ) , a melancholy 29- year old late shift nurse , is ending her live-in relationship with her boyfriend ( hoffman ) . 
rather , he is ending it with her . 
arriving home from work , erin finds her boyfriend parked in front of their apartment , car packed with his belongings . 
in a fumbling , amusing and self deluding ramble , he instructs erin to watch a videotape he's made detailing why their relationship is doomed to fail and why he's leaving . 
it's obvious he lacks the courage to confront her directly as he rails on about accomplishing something with his life and taking a stand , all the while backpedaling his way out of their relationship . 
he then flees the scene with the grace of an inept thief . 
erin's mother ( holland taylor , in a surprisingly effective , small role ) , fearing that her daughter will be without a man in her life , takes out a personal ad for erin . 
to erin's embarrassed horror , the ad describes her as a " frisky , cultured , carefree professional with a zest for life " . 
eventually , erin responds to the tidal wave of responses , which makes for some of the most humorous , telling moments of the movie as she meets prospective suitors and " poseurs " . 
alan , a plumber and aspiring marine biologist , first spots erin as he's cleaning the inside glass of a fish tank at the boston aquarium . 
wearing a wet suit and goggles , he follows erin from window to window , separated by the glass as erin , oblivious to his gaze , enjoys the fish . 
later , we see him on a train as she sits on a platform outside , mere feet away . 
the movie spends it's entirety having their paths circle each other without crossing . 
there are several subplots involving alan . 
one concerns his attempts to get on the job track at the boston aquarium , thereby escaping his apparent fate to carry on the family plumbing business . 
another subplot involves his father's desperate attempts to force fate's hand by gambling away his life at the dog track . 
a distracting focus is put on alan's debt to a loan shark and the manner in which he pays it off . 
the movie tries too hard to make alan a likable guy . 
thankfully , his dream- guy persona is counterbalanced by erin's distant , yet fundamentally hopeful , personality . 
the film moves along at an unhurried pace , albeit too much so in the latter third , as we wait for the two to meet . 
co-writers anderson and lyn vaus throw a couple of possible red herrings into the mix as the two find other possible relationships . 
the films shifts into a much slower gear as we wait for these romances to blow over . 
when alan and erin eventually do meet , we see that perhaps they both were destined for each other as they share a lingering , almost subliminally knowing , gaze . 
it's a sweet , measured moment . 
the disappointment comes in the fact that we've come to know the pair , yet we don't get to view their impending romance . 
the film's inherent belief in the subtle persistence of fate and the wonder it can bring to one's life makes " next stop wonderland " a quiet pleasure in a cinematic landscape littered with explosions , shallow characters and overdone special effects . 

the art of woo attempts to be one of those films like breakfast at tiffany's in which the audience is rooting for some sweet , vulnerable , irresistible woman to work out her problems and to find happiness . 
the problem is that helen lee who writes and directs seems to have written alessa woo ( played by sook-yin lee ) as neither sweet nor vulnerable and she is quite resistible . 
alessa is a young woman who happens to be a brilliant art dealer in the toronto art scene . 
this is some sort of alternate world art scene where people pay tens of thousands of dollars for paintings by talented beginners and dealers in these paintings fly back and forth to places like switzerland . 
one of the most knowledgeable of the art dealers is alessa . 
she also happens to be the center of adulation of her friends and every party has suitors camped outside her window . 
next door to alessa moves struggling genius artist and native american ben crowchild ( adam beach ) . 
he sees that behind the facade that there is really a sad little girl within alessa who really will not be happy with the rich art collector she is dating . 
ben gets emotionally involved with alessa . 
 ( as alessa so delicately puts it , " we were bosom buddies , now we're fuck buddies . " ) 
but alessa will have to decide whether she wants love with ben or wealth with her rich suitor . 
the real problem with the film seems to be helen lee's inability to decide what she wants to be saying . 
she undercuts nearly everything she wants us to believe about alessa . 
alessa is looking for financial security but she makes decisions about large sums of money for her clients . 
this appears to be a high profile and well-paid job . 
we are supposed to care about alessa's feelings , but she coldly refuses to visit her own ailing father . 
alessa cannot be portrayed as sweet and vulnerable if at an art auction she turns into our man flint . 
this is a charmless romantic comedy that bets everything it has on the appeal of its main character and comes up double-zero . 
i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale and a -1 on the -4 to +4 scale . 

after the recent animated debacles of , " a rugrats movie , " and " a bug's life , " i am seriously considering raising my highly negative rating on dreamworks' other insect film from october , " antz . " 
i hated that movie , and yet , it is so much better than these latest two excursions . 
 " a bug's life , " is the second animated insect film in the last two months , and i hoped for the best , considering it was done in the wonderful style of pixar's last film , 1995's " toy story , " but in no way does , " a bug's life , " even remotely match up to that . 
flik ( david foley ) , an ant , who along with his many comrades , has the job every year of gathering up the seasonal harvest , only to have to give half of it away to the dominating grasshoppers , led by hopper ( kevin spacey ) . 
flik , however , feels all alone and unwanted in the world , especially after he accidentally loses all of their food , and the ants are threated by hopper to gather up a whole other season's load by the time the last summer leaf falls from the trees . 
banished from ant island , flik leaves the colony in search of some strong reinforcement to help out , but through a misunderstanding , returns with a handful of helpless circus bugs , including a walking stick ( david hyde pierce ) , a dung beetle ( brad garrett ) , a gypsy moth ( madeline kahn ) , a male ladybug ( denis leary ) , and a caterpillar ( joe ranft ) . 
 " a bug's life , " has one thing going for it . 
only one thing . 
with its glorious , bright colors , the computer-generated animation is a spectacle to look at . 
the film itself , unfortunately , is a lifeless , unamusing contraption without any of the flair or excitement of , " toy story . " 
the characters in , " a bug's life , " are an assortment of either unlikable or dull insects without any charm or personality , other than to stand around and recite arbitrary and thoroughly unfunny one-liners . 
the thin story was also stretched out to a nearly unbearable 94 minutes , and it often felt as if they ran out of ideas throughout , and so they made up pointless scenes to pass as time-filler . 
after giving such scathing reviews to the animated films from this year , i was beginning to think that i had simply outgrown them , but then i realized this is just not so . 
i still adore almost all of the older disney films , and many of the newer ones , such as 1989's , " the little mermaid , " 1991's , " beauty and the beast , " 1993's , " the nightmare before christmas , " and yes , 1995's , " toy story . " 
maybe this has just been a bad year for children's films , and hopefully , the upcoming , " the prince of egypt , " will not be a disappointment . 
as for , " a bug's life , " i did not enjoy anything about it . 
not the story , not the characters , and not even the voiceover work , which was far more lively in , " antz . " 
 " a bug's life , " goes down as yet another failure for disney , and it is a sad state of affairs when their best film in the last two years has been the minor jonathan taylor thomas picture , " i'll be home for christmas . " 

there are scenes in " the big hit " that are so awful , they simply defy description . 
the movie is infected with the same kind of blunderheaded idiocy and misplaced confidence that made " last action hero " ( 1993 ) such a chore to sit through . 
presumably , " the big hit " is an action-comedy , a difficult but not impossible genre to pull off . 
movies of this sort require a fine balance and careful tone , and the comedy is usually meant to work as catharsis for the violence . 
 " lethal weapon 2 " ( 1989 ) is a perfect example of an action thriller that was also very , very funny . 
unfortunately , in " the big hit , " it seems that comedy is the main motive , and the violence is only intended to punctuate the laughs . 
unfortunately , there are no laughs . 
the movie resembles some of the goofy , throwaway ridiculousness of early jackie chan films , but it doesn't benefit from chan's incredible stunts and goofy , charismatic presence . 
instead , we are left with a lot of digital effects and mark wahlberg , who must have considered himself invincible after his critically-acclaimed performance in last year's " boogie nights . " 
however , if he wants to maintain a decent career , he had better start selecting his projects more carefully - movies like this are a sure-fire recipe for a long career in the straight-to-video market . 
wahlberg plays melvin smiley , an amiable guy who also happens to be a professional hitman ( see " grosse pointe blank " for the same character , much better developed ) . 
the movie wants us to think , " gee how clever and ironic - a guy who can kill without any moral implications , and yet he can't stand for anyone not to like him . " 
the fact is , melvin is so desperate to keep people from not liking him , that he puts up with both an obnoxious fiancee ( christina applegate , with a horrendous new york accent ) and an abusive girlfriend ( lela rochon ) who is only using him for his money . 
his constant bending over backwards to please people makes him a complete patsy at best , and a thoroughly unbelievable character at worst . 
melvin is employed exclusively by a crime boss named paris ( avery brooks ) as part of a team of hitmen , which also includes cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) and crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) . 
one day , melvin agrees to do some moonlighting with cisco by kidnapping the teenage daughter of a rich japanese mogul named jiro nishi ( sab shimono ) for a million dollar ransom . 
however , not only has jiro nishi lost all his money producing a big hollywood movie ( inside joke , get it ? ) , but his kidnapped daughter , keiko ( china chow ) , also happens to be paris' goddaughter . 
so , when paris finds out she's been kidnapped , he takes it personally and becomes determined to find out who did it . 
not knowing the cisco is actually behind the whole scheme , paris puts him in charge of rooting out the kidnapper . 
of course cisco blames the whole thing on poor , innocent melvin . 
along the way , there are several obligatory gunfights , explosions , and car chases , plus a literal cliffhanger inspired by " jurassic park , " and a completely unconvincing romance between melvin and keiko ( who looks like she's barely pushing fifteen ) . 
what the movie passes off as humor resorts to thoroughly unfunny jokes about overweight jewish mothers , hara-kiri , drinking problems , leaking body bags , and a running gag about how crunch has recently discovered the pleasures of masturbation , and now spends all his time doing hand exercises . 
not to mention the pimply video store clerk who is always calling melvin and screeching about how he needs to return his copy of " king kong lives , " which is two weeks overdue . 
this mess of a movie was helmed by che-kirk wong , the latest hong kong director imported by john woo ( " face/off " ) , who also served as executive producer . 
woo needs to stop acting as a conduit for other directors , and start making more of his own films . 
wong , who directed such films as " rock'n'roll cop " back in hong kong , is completely tone deaf when it comes to comedy . 
maybe jokes about vexatious video clerks and vomiting on other people are funny across the ocean , but they're not here , at least in the manner wong handles them . 
many of the problems can be traced back to the script , which was penned by obvious freshman writer ben ramsey . 
in addition to his vague characterizations and uninspired action sequences , ramsey's script assaults the audience with his attempts to copy the vulgar , poetic rhythms of tarantino or mamet-style dialogue . 
what he comes out with is just a lot of annoying blather , most of which spews from the lips of lou diamond phillips ( whose favorite phrase is " it's all love " ) and robin dunne , who plays cisco's stuttering , black-wannabe assistant . 
the irritation factor of phillips and dunne combined is almost off the scale , which can pretty much describe the film as a whole . 

well lets see . . . i'm 
not quite sure how to review this film , based on its laughter factor . 
well yeah i can , it's not funny . 
ok so i laughed one time which warranted the 1/2 star , but other than that i sat in my seat wondering when this pos would be over , ( which at a running time of 107 minutes seemed like forever ! ) . 
in fact , this could be the un-funniest movie i've seen in a long time , if not the un-funniest . 
let me be the first to say " ready to rumble " is a huge disappointment . 
long time wrestling lovers ( david and scott ) dream of making it to the wcw , and watching jimmy king wrestle . 
that is their hero of course , whom is kicked out of the wcw . 
well here is where the plot thickens ( lol ) : the two wish to rescue the king , and put him back into the wcw but not that easily , because they are being tampered with by many people who are out to get them , while david's father wants him to become a police officer , and scott is a loser who has to with the help of david clean out johnny on the spots . 
what a plot eh ? 
 " ready to rumble " is one of those films that tries to be funny , but sadly fails miserably , everything in the film is imcomprehinsable , and even the trailer wasn't funny . 
the actors are dull , the script awful , and the plot which there isn't much of . . . . really 
annoying . 
i'm not quite sure how great actors like these , and very funny actors too , are given such a lame script , and directed in such a childish manner , that i wonder if hollywood is ever gonna make good films these days . 
this review isn't going to be very long because of the fact that there isn't much going for the film , if anything at all . 
only one big laugh is in the film , which isn't all that hilarious . 
i sat in my chair wondering with this 107 ( ! ! ! ! ! ) 
minute " comedy " was going to be over , and sadly it went on forever . 
i'm not sure if anything could have saved this film from being such a total waste , but believe me you , it is . 
reviewed by brandon herring 4/29/00 for more reviews please visit movie review central at http : //www . geocities . com/moviefan983/moviereviewcentral . html 

i have never been a " star trek " fan , and , to tell the truth , out of the five films in the series that i have seen ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 8 , 9 ) , i have disliked all of them . 
i do , however , always go into one of these with an open mind , and the ninth film in the series , " star trek : insurrection , " is no exception . 
dropping almost completely the hard-core sci-fi element of the previous one in the series , " first contact , " " insurrection , " tells the story of a planet that holds only 600 people , known as the ba'ku , as well as the fountain of youth . 
at the start of the picture , the villagers go under attack by a second alien species , known as the son'a , who want to push all of the ba'ku out so that their own race will not die out . 
also attacking the ba'ku is data ( brent spiner ) , a robot from the star trek enterprise . 
after returning to jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the gang on their space ship , no one can understand why data was somehow taken over by another force . 
so several of the star trek members travel down to the planet of the ba'ku , where picard meets up and starts to fall in love with one of the inhabitants , a sultry , kind alien woman ( donna murphy ) , who is over six-hundred-years-old , but looks to only be in her thirties . 
 " star trek : insurrection , " is a completely unoriginal and cheap-looking installment in the series , and is a big step down from , 1996's " first contact , " which at least appeared to try to make something a bit different . 
in , " insurrection , " however , it plays like a low-rent episode of the television show , due to the small-scale , generic storyline , and an emphasis on one-liners rather than excitement . 
the film was filled with nearly non-stop comedy , and worse yet , most of it fell flatter than a cartoon character that drops off a cliff . 
meanwhile , when there were action sequences , they were not at all interesting or inventive , relying on that old reliable ticking timer that counts down very , very slowly . 
this plot device , which is seen in just about every action film made nowadays , is getting old fast . 
are filmmakers so bankrupt of ingenuity and ideas that they must always have a timer ticking away during the climax ? 
another element of , " star trek , " films in general is that picard seems to always have to have a love interest , but then she always miraculously disappears when the next film is made two or three years later . 
although donna murphy , who falls victim to this thankless love interest role here , is actually one of the few characters that we get to know in the 103-minute running time , alfre woodard was far superior in , " first contact . " 
she should have returned for this one , but i don't blame her for not wanting to waste her time with this movie's disappointing and often lifeless screenplay , by michael piller . 
 " star trek : insurrection , " is perhaps the weakest film in the " star trek , " series , although i have not seen what is widely considered the worst , " star trek v : the final frontier . " 
 " insurrection , " is the type of " safe " sequel that will bewilder non-fans , since it is so low-tech compared to most of today's blockbuster action films ( although most of these are honestly not very good , either ) , and should disappoint the loyal trekkies , since it could have easily been better if the makers had realized that the screenplay needed to go through a few more drafts . 
on second thought , they probably should have completely thrown the script out . 
that way , they could have come up with a story that at least had a sign of intelligence and freshness . 

starring ben stiller , elizabeth hurley , maria bello , janeane garofalo screenplay by david veloz , based on the novel by jerry stahl directed by david veloz 
permanent midnight is a pretty bad movie , though it took me a few days to conclude this . 
the film is more masturbatory than bleak , with its main character intent on confounding us with his stupidity . 
 ( he has a $6000 a week drug habit . ) 
ultimately , as adapted by veloz , jerry stahl comes off as one of those playground braggarts who chainsmokes at the age of twelve ; you are less mystified by his self-destructive nature than bored into a stupor yourself . 
ben stiller plays stahl , a young author who arrives in l . a . with ambition and a nasty drug habit . 
he eventually gets a gig for $5000/week writing for a sitcom called mr . chompers ( a thinly veiled stand-in for " alf " : chompers looks just like alf except he's blue ) , marries a producer ( hurley ) so she can get a green card , and hooks up with a spanish mother ( liz torres ) , who shoots heroin with him in the afternoons . 
insert proverbial downward spiral here . 
permanent midnight is structured mostly as a flashback , with recovering addict bello meeting stiller ( at a fastfood restaurant , where stiller works the drive-thru as part of rehab ) , taking him back to a hotel , and between bouts of serious screwing , listening to his life story . 
i've spent the last week trying to figure out why stiller never seemed to find the frighteningly gorgeous hurley attractive-worse , i've been trying to figure out why hurley did find stiller attractive . 
as stahl , stiller displays none of the charm or wit one would expect ( post-there's something about mary ) of either the actor or a comedy writer . 
what separates stahl from the hundreds of other hollywood punk-junkies , it seems , is that stahl wrote a book about his idiocy . 
watch stahl shoot heroin next to a baby ! 
watch stahl spoil numerous pitch meetings with smack-fueled babble ! 
stiller gives a technically flawless performance : the film could double as a documentary on how to be a junkie . 
but permanent midnight is mostly soulless . 
when the movie poses the question will stahl be saved ? 
and then answers it in the form of bello's character ( basically a shrink in black panties ) , could a person care less ? 
in the film version of his autobiography of the same name , stahl doesn't need saving , he needs someone who will sit there and listen to him go on about himself . 
if you learn anything about the other characters in this movie , it's that they are the most incredibly tolerant hollywood-types known to man . 
 ( stahl also seems to be the only person at schmooze parties doing drugs . 
is this hollywood . . . california ? ) 
i learned very little about the entertainment business from permanent midnight and a whole lot about an egotistical lunkhead . 
of course you know that stahl triumphed because he lived to talk about his problems . 
so , basically , his drug habit got him a book deal , a movie based on his life , and now he's apparently collaborating with stiller on future projects . 
so much for the moral of that story . 
temporary midnight is more like it . 
-bill chambers ; september , 1998 

edward burns tackles his third picture with no looking back , and like his previous two , it is a working-class relationship picture . 
however , unlike his previous work , the film dwells on a more personal story , and with a female protagonist . 
and in no looking back , he stumbles , making a slow , boring film without the spark that enlivened his previous work . 
claudia ( lauren holly ) is a small town waitress who is feeling stifled by her life . 
she's at a turning point in her life , and feels as if she's going nowhere . 
her boyfriend , michael ( jon bon jovi ) , is broke and in a dead end job . 
if she were to marry him , she'd never get a chance to escape this town . 
enter charlie ( edward burns ) , claudia's old flame . 
he skipped town several years before , without any explanations . . . even 
for claudia . 
he has come back to town to see her , and suddenly she is torn . 
should she stay with stable michael , and never escape her hometown . . . or 
should she ignore her instincts and fall for charlie again . 
part of the answer lies in the character of her mother ( blythe danner ) , who fell for the wrong man . . . and has spent her life pining for claudia's father to return . 
now it seems that claudia is about to make the same mistakes . 
at only a little past ninety minutes , no looking back is rather short for its genre . 
unfortunately , it seems much much longer . 
the storyline is simple and uninspired , and there's a lack of energy to the whole proceedings , which makes the entire drama rather tedious . 
edward burns makes a misstep by casting himself in the crucial role as the egomaniacal old flame . 
there's no one to restrain his ego , which reigns unchecked . 
he walks into the room and lauren holly swoons . . . yeah , 
right . 
lauren holly does what she can with her central character . 
but we never understand why her character makes such pathetically bad decisions . . . and 
we never really care . 
bon jovi is the only sympathetic character in the whole movie . 
his acting talents are much greater than they might seem , but he is given a mostly bland and ineffective role to work with . 
there's not much to recommend in no looking back . 
it's not that the film is bad . . . it's 
simply boring . 
there's no zest in any aspect of the film , and no reason to spend ninety minutes watching it . 

i think the first thing this reviewer should mention is wether or not i am a fan of the x-files . 
first , let me assure you that no prior experience with the series is required to fully enjoy this movie . 
the producers are not stupid , making a movie just for fans of the series is not profitable . 
you have to reach for a larger audience . 
therefore , the movie is quite user-friendly . 
altough , non-fans will only fail to understand certain emotions behind the looks many characters exchange . 
but fear not , duchovny and another man later on provide more than adequate background info on what is going on . 
you will never feel as if you just walked in on the third act of some great opera . 
in any case , the answer is no . 
i am not a fan of the x-files , i only watch it when nothing else is on and i prefer millennium . 
however , since the fox network as been so kind as to air several key episodes for several weeks before the movie's opening weekend i took that opportunity to test the movie . 
i taped all of these episodes and watched them only after seing the movie , i am glad to report that i learned nothing new . 
everything you need to know is explained to the viewer by duchovny and others . 
i know i am going maybe a bit too far to make my point but everybody should get the chance to experience this movie . 
warning : major spoilers follow ! 
please do not read , to fully enjoy this movie you must not be able know what is coming , what exactly is over that hill and what that weird " hummm " sound is all about . 
you have been warned . 
the x-files is what a summer should be . 
exciting , scary , great special effects ( unlike other summer movies the effects do not take over the movie and are only there when it is really necessary ) and good performances . 
this is coming from a guy who thinks david duchovny is the human equivalent of a wooden plank . 
from start to finish , this movie does not let go of you . 
when i compare it with last summer's movies the best way to describe it would be : take the excitement and great score from face/off and the deadly use of sound from event horizon . 
this flick is scary , not in a b movie kind of way where you always know where and when the critter will jump at our heroes . 
in fact , the first time the critter in this movie makes an apperance it is totally out of the blue . 
you might as well bring ear plugs because this thing is louuuudd ! 
the last time a monster scared me that much was when i first saw aliens as a six year old kid . 
you know , when you are affraid to put you feet on the floor because the creature might be under the chair , or when you keep trying to cover your throat with your shirt ? 
so yeah , the x-files is scary . 
and guess what ? 
you never even have to see the monster but your imagination works overtime and it sure beats having to watch a flawed , computer generated , babyzilla , it looks like you could walk right through it not even scarier than your grandma in undies type of monster . 
do not think that the x-files is a monster movie . 
in fact , the creature is there for maybe three minutes total . 
no , the x-files is definately a mulder episode of the series . 
scully is at his side , of course , but gillian anderson gets maybe half the screen time . 
she has a couple of good scenes with duchovny , but she gets kidnapped during the last half hour of the movie so she does not get to do much . 
no , this is mulder's time in the spotlight . 
by now , you have heard of the scene where mulder " showers " independence day . 
if you have not then i will not spoil it for you , let's just say that due to recent events mulder should be " showering " godzilla instead . 
to those of you wondering if mulder discovers that the truth is indeed out there . . . who 
cares ! ? 
if he did find it the series would over anyway so what are you complaining about ? 
the dialogue in interesting and the director is marvelous . 
the camera is almost always looking over the shoulder of our heroes so we feel as if we are right there with them when they open a door or climb a hill . 
the script is spotless , every thing that happens happens for a purpose . 
if you are confused by something , do not worry because it will all become clear later on but , and i cannot stress this enough , pay attention ! ! ! 
unlike most summer movies , the dialogue is twice as important as the effects . 
miss one vital piece of information and , like most people who talk during movies , you will go home and tell all your friends how this movie made no sense . 
also , to those people who need to go to the bathroom during movies . . . don't ! 
the person who watched the movie with me had to go twice and twice she missed an important conversation . 
there is no time to take a breather between scenes because , again unlike most summer movies ( godzilla anybody ? 
 ) the x-files does not need to fill scenes between the suspense and the action with useless subplots , every scene is crucial and serves a purpose . 
who needs to see the blond chiouaoua have a " big emotional scene " between godzilla attacks ? 
so far this summer i have seen only one movie who ranks higher on my list of movies i'd recommend and that is the truman show but it only wins by a nose . 
but the truman show is not what i would call a summer movie , the x-files is . 
what more do you ask from a summer movie other than the chance to be excited ? 
cool effects ? 
it's good some . 
pulse pounding ? 
hell yes ! 
strangely enough , i think that fans of the series will hate this movie while non-fans will have a good time . 
it does not provide answers to the show's many questions , the status quo remains nearly the same and , no , mulder and scully do not get together . 
rating : four and a half out of five stars for the best movie yet this summer , several jump right out of your seat thrills , many " whoah , i never saw that one coming ! " 
moments , four " holy shit , where the hell did that come from " and one heck of an ending . 
you may wonder where this movie lost half a star . 
well , i swore never to give a movie the full five stars so i had to find something about the in his ice truck , the tracks it leaves in the snow behind him go on for several miles but then they just stop . 
it's pretty obvious the film's makers drove the truck for several miles to give the appearance that mulder had been driving for a long time , but in the end it looks like mulder just dropped from the sky and started driving . 

plot : two teen couples go to a church party , drink and then drive . 
they get into an accident . 
one of the guys dies , but his girlfriend continues to see him in her life , and has nightmares . 
what's the deal ? 
watch the movie and " sorta " find out . . . 
critique : a mind-fuck movie for the teen generation that touches on a very cool idea , but presents it in a very bad package . 
which is what makes this review an even harder one to write , since i generally applaud films which attempt to break the mold , mess with your head and such ( lost highway & memento ) , but there are good and bad ways of making all types of films , and these folks just didn't snag this one correctly . 
they seem to have taken this pretty neat concept , but executed it terribly . 
so what are the problems with the movie ? 
well , its main problem is that it's simply too jumbled . 
it starts off " normal " but then downshifts into this " fantasy " world in which you , as an audience member , have no idea what's going on . 
there are dreams , there are characters coming back from the dead , there are others who look like the dead , there are strange apparitions , there are disappearances , there are a looooot of chase scenes , there are tons of weird things that happen , and most of it is simply not explained . 
now i personally don't mind trying to unravel a film every now and then , but when all it does is give me the same clue over and over again , i get kind of fed up after a while , which is this film's biggest problem . 
it's obviously got this big secret to hide , but it seems to want to hide it completely until its final five minutes . 
and do they make things entertaining , thrilling or even engaging , in the meantime ? 
not really . 
the sad part is that the arrow and i both dig on flicks like this , so we actually figured most of it out by the half-way point , so all of the strangeness after that did start to make a little bit of sense , but it still didn't the make the film all that more entertaining . 
i guess the bottom line with movies like this is that you should always make sure that the audience is " into it " even before they are given the secret password to enter your world of understanding . 
i mean , showing melissa sagemiller running away from visions for about 20 minutes throughout the movie is just plain lazy ! ! 
okay , we get it . . . there 
are people chasing her and we don't know who they are . 
do we really need to see it over and over again ? 
how about giving us different scenes offering further insight into all of the strangeness going down in the movie ? 
apparently , the studio took this film away from its director and chopped it up themselves , and it shows . 
there might've been a pretty decent teen mind-fuck movie in here somewhere , but i guess " the suits " decided that turning it into a music video with little edge , would make more sense . 
the actors are pretty good for the most part , although wes bentley just seemed to be playing the exact same character that he did in american beauty , only in a new neighborhood . 
but my biggest kudos go out to sagemiller , who holds her own throughout the entire film , and actually has you feeling her character's unraveling . 
overall , the film doesn't stick because it doesn't entertain , it's confusing , it rarely excites and it feels pretty redundant for most of its runtime , despite a pretty cool ending and explanation to all of the craziness that came before it . 
oh , and by the way , this is not a horror or teen slasher flick . . . it's 
just packaged to look that way because someone is apparently assuming that the genre is still hot with the kids . 
it also wrapped production two years ago and has been sitting on the shelves ever since . 
whatever . . . skip 
it ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
a nightmare of elm street 3 ( 7/10 ) - blair witch 2 ( 7/10 ) - the crow ( 9/10 ) - the crow : salvation ( 4/10 ) - lost highway ( 10/10 ) - memento ( 10/10 ) - the others ( 9/10 ) - stir of echoes ( 8/10 ) 

saving private ryan ( dreamworks ) running time : 2 hours 48 minutes . 
starring tom hanks , edward burns , tom sizemore and matt damon directed by steven spielberg already being hailed as the 'greatest war movie ever made , ' saving private ryan is an harrowing , saddening and riveting movie . 
it may not be the greatest war movie in my opinion , but it's certainly one of the best war movies made , and one of the best of 1998 . 
tom hanks stars as a captain who's troop has to find private ryan ( damon ) who has a ticket home because his three brothers have been killed in action . 
action , drama and even some humour occur as the troop journeys through wartime france to find him . 
after the disappointing amistad ( 1997 ) spielberg has returned to form with this excellent movie . 
i'm not the war movie genre biggest fan , but i found this film to be gripping , and very scary , thanks to the excellent cast , direction and terrifying battle scenes . 
tom hanks is superb , straying away from his usually soppy dramatic roles , such as in forrest gump ( 1994 ) . 
this time , he plays the role with gritty realism , and is much better for it . 
occasionally he overacts the sentimentally , but he generally delivers a fine performance . 
edward burns , looking a lot like armageddon's ben affleck , also delivers a top notch performance , moving away from his roles in films such as she's the one ( 1996 ) tom sizemore makes less of an impact , but is still watchable , and matt damon reinforcing his position as one of the finest young actors working today . 
spielberg directs very well , putting the audience right in the heart of the action of the battle scenes . 
and what battle scenes they are ! 
they're truly terrifying , yet the audience cannot drag their eyes away from the screen . 
the battle scenes are filmed with a jerky hand-held camera , and the panic and confusion felt by the soldiers is emphasized by this technique . 
the gore and violence isn't spared either , which body parts flying , and blood spurting . 
this film is certainly not for kids and sensitive adults . 
other factors help saving private ryan be a masterpiece of 90's film making . 
the cinematography is excellent , and the music score by john william's is also superb . 
it is never intrusive , and adds to the drama on-screen . 
but while they are thousands of good things great about private ryan , there's one major flaw that detracts the genius of the film : the writing . 
it is unusually flat , with many of the speeches strangely weak . 
the film never really makes any profound statements . 
this is not a major gripe , as private ryan is a film of action , not words . 
still , the script could of been a lot better . 
thankfully , the actors help partly to rectify the situation with their great delivery of their lines . 
saving private ryan , in the end , is an excellent film , but not the 'greatest war movie' due to it's weak acting . 
this film should be viewed by everyone who has the stomach for it , as it's rewarding and extremely worthwhile . 
it really shouldn't be missed , and dreamworks skg has finally found it's first hit movie . 

veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort . 
when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs . 
eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake . 
he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) . 
when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session . 
the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent . 
he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand . 
but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ? 
jeter doesn't know what he's talking about . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime . 
the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs . 
isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments . 
but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him . 
denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) . 
but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera . 
playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines . 
when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive . 
eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes . 
true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star . 
this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

big courtroom thrillers have always captivated america . 
o . j . 
simpson , tom capano , the menendez brothers . 
all these names are synonymous to americans and courtrooms . 
and , of course , courtroom dramas are not a new topic to hollywood . 
whether it be john grisham's thrilling novels or television's famous dramas , the courtroom has always provided big bucks . 
so when i rented a civil action , i was expecting the film to be like the rainmaker , a brilliant law film that kept viewers on the edge of their seat . 
however , what i saw in a civil action was far different from what i expected , a major surprise , but fortunately , a pleasant one . 
john travolta always seems to come up big when you least expect it . 
no one expected him to light up the screen in grease , nor in saturday night fever . 
but , whenever he gets knocked down , he always seems to come back fighting . 
a civil action is not john's best performance , but a strong one that could rival any performance in 1998 . 
travolta proves that a normal and believable performance can vault a film into oscar nominations . 
his performance is not flashy , nor memorable , just solid . 
if he delivered the only solid performance , this film would still be average . 
luckily , he has a strong supporting cast . 
william h . macy is probably one of the most underrated actors in hollywood . 
he continues to deliver great performances one after the other , but he is still regarded as a secondary actor . 
in a civil action , he delivers yet another great performance as travolta's paranoid and greedy accountant . 
he is not a lovable character , but a character who stands out in your mind whenever you think of the film . 
he is not one of the big time lawyers , just a measly accountant . 
but , he delivers one of the best supporting roles of 1998 , but there is actually someone better in a civil action . 
robert duvall is also an underrated actor . 
he gets many leading roles , but is never heard when you hear of big box office draws like tom hanks , brad pitt and jim carrey . 
duvall has a supporting role in this as a lawyer of the co-defendant . 
duvall is magical in this role . 
he is the wise teacher , who not only battles it out in the courtroom , but also manages to teach every major player a lesson , in his own twisted way . 
in many non-comedic films , directors are always trying to find a way to implement a touch of comedy , to keep the audience on their toes . 
unfortunately , they usually just key in on one character whose main objective is to be funny ( jar-jar binks , anyone ? ) . 
however , this usually backfires because the character is never fully developed . 
this is not the case in a civil action . 
they have comedy coming from all sides . 
whether it be duvall's inane questions or macy's sharp anger , the laughs come in a steady pace . 
granted , it's not roll in the aisle funny , but it provides a nice addition to the film . 
the plot is terrific- somewhat . 
the setup is nice with the film actually starting with a victory in the courtroom . 
then the case that will make or break jan ( travolta ) 's career rears its ugly head . 
they find out the goldmine involved with the case and wind up taking it . 
however , budgets soon flounder and jan finds himself in deep debt . 
i will not spoil the rest , although i must speak of the one downside to the film . 
the courtroom debates are great , but the actual problem they are fighting for is never fully explored . 
it left me somewhat confused , although the rest of the film is terrific . 
all in all , john travolta is back yet again in this great film . 
his supporting cast , consisting of macy and duvall , turn in tremendous performances , which ease the load on travolta . 
the film is smart , witty and thought provoking . 
not only does it gauge in-court battles , but also the various tolls it can take on the major players . 
a civil action provides everything a drama lover craves . 

niagara niagara ( r ) bob gosse's niagara niagara follows a blueprint not unlike a lot of young-lovers-on-the-road movies . 
wild marcy ( robin tunney ) and calm seth ( henry thomas ) meet cute , literally running into each other while shoplifting at a local store . 
a mere couple of scenes later , the two embark on a journey to toronto from their small , unnamed american town in pursuit of a rare doll that marcy desperately wants . 
along the way , true love inevitably blossoms . 
what sets niagara niagara apart , though , is that marcy is afflicted with tourette's syndrome , a neurological disorder that causes sudden muscle and vocal tics . 
tunney , displaying an acting range not hinted at in the teenage witch thriller the craft , delivers an astonishing performance that won her the best actress prize at last year's venice film festival . 
to term her work a tour-de-force is not to imply that she attacks the scenery ; tunney's effectiveness lies in her modulation and vulnerability , which makes her depiction of marcy's illness--which often causes her to act violently--that much more convincing and tragic . 
she and the nicely subtle thomas develop a sweetly innocent and beguilingly off-kilter chemistry . 
their journey hits a few rough spots creatively along the way , mostly the fault of writer matthew weiss . 
a detour involving a kindly widower ( michael parks ) who takes the couple in brings the story to a screeching halt , and the key character of a trigger-happy pharmacist ( stephen lang ) is highly unbelievable . 
but these missteps do not blunt the power of tunney's bravura turn , which carries niagara niagara to a level of poignance it would not have otherwise achieved . 
 ( opens march 20 ) 
 " i didn't know what to expect . 
it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it . 
i still don't know how to react . " 
--michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or , 
my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997 

synopsis : big-breasted and dim-witted sculptress britt gets really mad at her grad student boyfriend because he spends too much time on his thought-transference experiments instead of her art showings . 
elderly , evil scientist everett longstreet switches minds with britt's boy , in the meantime , and goes completely mental . 
comments : naked souls opens with a naked woman , and the movie makes no illusion that it's a sci-fi vehicle designed to show pamela anderson's , um , talents . 
if you are really interested in seeing anderson's talents , however , i suggest you skip over this dud and watch the infamous pam and tommy lee honeymoon sex tape , now available on home video . 
at least with that " movie , " you don't have to go through the painful experience of watching pamela try to pronounce multiple syllable words like " eclectic . " 
a premise does exist in the movie . 
basically , while anderson wears skimpy clothes which barely contain her talents , she practices her art -- brilliantly slapping plaster of paris on naked women . 
her boyfriend , meanwhile , spends 20 hours a day in a morgue trying to view the memories of dead prison inmates because this will " make a difference to humanity . " 
whatever . 
the movie fails to explain how these two hooked up . 
be grateful . 
after we meet the evil everett longstreet , lots of technobabble and mystical mumbo-jumbo get tossed about , pammy has sex replete with cheesy make-out music , and minds get transferred . 
never fear , though , pammy uses her sharp mental abilities ( ahem ) to save her boyfriend in the end . 
unfortunately , no one saves the movie . 
avoid this would-be sci-fi thriller , unless you're in for a good laugh or two . 

the obvious reason for producing a sequel to an immensely popular movie is to acquire continued profits . 
the rationale is sound , but in many cases of this and recent years , the sequel is a shoddy product that's exposed for the cash-milking vehicle it really is . 
last year's speed 2 and scream 2 , as well as this year's species ii have all been products that have been decisively less than satisfactory . 
in some cases , a sequel can even discredit its predecessor , as with the latest neo-slasher flick , i still know what you did last summer . 
whatever uniqueness the original might've had now seems trite and overplayed when paired with this abominable thriller . 
julie james ( jennifer love hewitt ) and ray bronson ( freddie prinze jr . ) are back from the original to star in i still know , reprising their roles in typical fashion . 
julie and ray experience a rather predictable falling-out at the beginning of the movie , leaving the door wide open for newcomer will benson ( matthew settle ) . 
will and julie hit it off , and along with friends karla ( brandy norwood ) and tyrell ( mekhi phifer ) , the foursome heads off to a radio station-giveaway vacation in the tropics . 
unfortunately , things aren't so peachy once they arrive , and with a regularity you could set your watch by , the infamous fisherman ( muse watson ) is back with his hook . 
it's another bloody showdown , complete with cliffhanger ending . 
there's not much that's original about i still know , and with the market saturated by gen-x thrillers like this one , it's unlikely that i still know will get any recognition other than that of a bad sequel . 
for die-hard fans of the genre , this will be required viewing material , but the bottom line is that the material here is just recycled from the original i know what you did last summer . 
the aura of thrillerism surrounding the plot isn't heightened by skillful scripting or camera work , but rather a tense , string-based score and manipulative editing . 
the man with the hook ends up becoming very belittled this time around when the script gives him too many lines of dialogue -- he goes from being a scary figure to a nutcase in a few short and painful moments . 
much of the mystery is dropped for the sake of getting the point . 
the whole reason the plot exists - julie and karla must guess the capital of brazil in order to win the trip from the radio station - is a dead giveaway , lessening suspense and creating a hurry-up-and-wait timing problem . 
and , whereas the killer's identity might've been a question in the first movie , it's almost a given here , which changes the dynamic of the movie drastically . 
three or four teens run automatically from a man in a rain slicker they nonchalantly refer to as " the killer . " 
they're almost used to it , and the performances show it - not hewitt , nor prinze , nor brandy , nor phifer give a decent show . 
and so , in the end , it's left wide open for a third movie and - most likely - a brand new supporting cast . 
god help us . 

what's to like about the world of extremely violent trash pornography--ie . 
the garbage known as " snuff " films ? 
nothing , right ? 
what's to like about a film chronicling the world of violent trash pornography ? 
well . . . nothing . 
so , why make it , hollywood ? 
there's no reason why the average , sane movie-goer will be interested in such a topic . 
no one is going to enrich their life or have a good time by watching material such as this . 
the lack of quality filmmaking in " 8mm " ( from technical to acting ) stands out even more when you consider the star , writer , and supporting cast--all reputable . 
but joel schumacher and his brand of unlikable filmmaking strikes again ! 
like paul schrader , schumacher has his moments , but they're few and far ( far ! ) 
between . 
basically , this picture is crap and no one should pay to see it . 
why not walk out ? 
well , this wouldn't be a thorough review about a thoroughly bad movie . 
here's why you should spend your money on dog food or gum instead of " 8mm " . . . 
first thing--if you don't heed my advice , then understand what you're about to see before you even think about paying good money for this crud . 
it's not easy to watch . 
i didn't know the details of the story beforehand , but at least my ignorance can help others now . 
the ( ha ! ) plot revolves around tom welles ( nicolas cage ) as a surveillance expert and private investigator . 
a rich old woman discovers a " snuff " film in her late husband's safe . 
she calls welles and hires him to try and find out if the young girl ( it had to be a young girl , didn't it , schumacher ! ) who appears to be murdered in the film really is dead . 
she's horrified that her husband would have owned such a film ( in 8mm , of course ) and just wants welles to snoop around without police interference to see what he can find . 
family-man welles agrees against better judgement or any concrete leads even after cringing and grimacing at the sight of the grotesque " murder " . 
let me backtrack for a moment . 
see , " snuff " films are pornos with a violent twist--people are tortured in very sick ways and end up dead . 
however , the deaths are often staged and , in those cases , special effects and " good " acting make all the difference . 
very sick people enjoy and pay top dollar for these hard-to-find movies . 
the thought of this " industry " makes me want to throw my computer out the window and stop this review , but i'll swallow my bile and move on . 
welles follows clues to hollywood and the porn industry . 
you'd think he's sherlock holmes the way clues drop so easily for him ! 
he comes across smut clerk max ( joaquin phoenix ) who knows everyone and everything in the underground business of sleaze . 
after a lot of digging and bribing , welles finds the men who are responsible for making this , and other , " snuff " films . 
skip ahead , skip ahead , skip ahead . . . 
led by dino velvet ( peter stormare in an uncharacteristically terrible performance ) and star-torturer " machine " ( christopher bauer ) , they have a big showdown with welles where death and mayhem ensue . 
the movie doesn't end there , unfortunately , because welles has to do what all heroes in schumacher films do--become a vigilante . 
this film doesn't draw you in . 
it keeps you about 700 miles away from it and who in their right mind would want to get close ? 
it is possible to like a film that focuses on grime and sick behaviour ( ie . 
 " se7en " ) , but it takes a large measure of restraint ( schumacher has none ) and a larger amount of talent ( schumacher has little ) . 
by those jabs , i'm not only referring to his stylish destruction of the " batman " franchise , but " a time to kill " was an immensely overrated disappointment . 
for a guy who gets so much studio money , his track record of making rather bad movies is unparalleled . 
a good screenwriter and a good director can make you hypnotically watch even disgusting subject matter . 
writer andrew kevin walker didn't recapture the smarts of the fascinating script he authored for '95s twisted thriller , " se7en " . 
director schumacher doesn't have that innate ability to make you watch things you don't really want to see like better directors are capable of doing . 
he must not have believed hitchcock who espoused the theory that what we don't see is more frightening than what we do ( especially when it's a scene where young girl is supposed to be murdered ) . 
however , gratuitous is joel's middle name . 
he must think that not flaunting a hard-core act of violent sex is showing plenty of tactful restraint . 
no , he doesn't go that far , but we see enough unpleasantness . 
he doesn't leave much to the imagination . 
it's manipulating to hurt ( or kill ) young girls just to get the audience on the side of a murderous vigilante . 
the script and acting should be what gets us to believe in these characters , yet schumacher has no subtlety in his ( ha ha ! ) 
craft . 
case in point , a shot of a christian fellowship bus ( good , right ? ) 
drives away to reveal one of the villains ( bad , right ? ) . 
see . . . no 
subtlety . 
does joel think we're stupid or that we need to be held by the hand to comprehend the contrasting imagery ? 
who do we root for in this mess ? 
is there anybody out there ? 
it's not all the director's fault , though . 
why did the actors sign up for this ? 
nicolas cage is an oscar-winner , for cryin' out loud ! 
if he claims to do films to challenge himself and for the artistic merit rather than the money , what was he smoking when this script dropped on his veranda ? 
what is cage supposed to be in this movie--a whispering batman without the charisma and pointed ears ? 
villainous peter stormare is five steps past hammy . 
and what is james gandolfini doing in this trash ? 
he was so solid as a concerned father in " a civil action " . 
i guess ol' nic , pete , and jim were promised a mountain of money . . . or 
they're suckers . 
or they just don't care . 
there are moments ( albeit brief ones ) where this rises above the wasteland . 
catherine keener is good ( although too quick to threaten divorce ) as mrs . wells . 
baby cindy is obviously cute and wells' devout love of his daughter is sweet . 
the mother ( amy norton ) of the girl in the infamous 8mm film is not too bad as a woman dealing with the uncertain loss of her runaway daughter . 
this film has an appropriate blue-toned , washed-out look like " payback " ( which was a much better movie ) . 
the editing is okay in scenes of no dialogue , but at other times it's rough . 
during some conversations , close-ups and wide shots are not cut very well , making it look to be editted by someone whose instincts aren't good and whose timing was a half-second off . 
such a technical error indeed stands out . 
speaking of standing out , don't believe the misleading trailers . 
there's not much action here . 
occasionally , yes , but not as often as your tv will have you believe . 
after seeing " 8mm " , i may not be interested in ever watching any kind of porn again . 
is that a positive ? 
well , if making me almost ill at the thought of glimpsing a dirty movie again is their motive , they've done a swell job here . 
it'll be a long time before i give a schumacher film another chance--unless i lose my mind and become seriously depraved . 
but today i'm not depraved , so i ask , why does this film preach that this garbage is out there and that society should be worried about it ? 
i'm sure that somewhere right now there's some pretty sick crap going on , but that doesn't mean i need to know about it . 
yes , mr . walker , your script tells us that there are some screwed-up folks out there . 
yes , mr . walker , the proverbial monster doesn't look like we expect him to . 
you said all that in 1995 . 
move on . 
this film serves no purpose . 
it doesn't entertain , it doesn't teach us anything , it doesn't make a statement beyond the obvious " this stuff is bad " approach . 
only if this film awakens the authorities to find a way to abolish these types of horrors would it ever do someting truly worthwhile . 
that's not likely to happen , though , so " 8mm " is indeed a scummy waste of money . 
orson welles said years ago in a tribute to film , " to movies . . . to 
good movies " . 
if only joel schumacher and the producers had listened and told andrew kevin walker to bury this crud deep in a hole . 
like " snuff " films , " 8mm " should never have been made . 
now , excuse me while i go try to forget i ever saw it . 
useless trivia--joel schumacher loves the vigilante theme . 
he used it in " batman forever " , in " batman & robin " , in " a time to kill " , in " falling down " , and it's rumoured that joel himself will play the vigilante at his breakfast table tomorrow . . . 

melvin van peebles' " sweet sweetback's baadasssss song " was a watershed moment in the history of american cinema and the black movement . 
it was released less than a decade after the civil rights movement had begun and almost twenty years before the rodney king incident . 
its violent and highly sexualized revenge tale of a macho black hustler fighting back against white oppression and winning was something that had never been seen on an american movie screen before . 
in style , content , and how it was conceived and produced , " sweet sweetback " was a cinematic revolution , whether or not one agrees with its subject matter . 
van peebles , a black american who first gained recognition by writing novels in france , built " sweet sweetback " from the ground up almost entirely by himself . 
because no studio would dare fund such a film , he was forced to raise all the money himself . 
the movie ended up costing about $500 , 000 , part of which was put up by none other than bill cosby . 
van peebles cut costs by hiring non-union labor and taking on most of the film's responsibilities himself . 
he wrote the script , scored the music , edited and directed the film , as well as starred in the central role . 
he was also a brilliant entrepreneur who always found a way to make an extra buck . 
for instance , when the mppa slapped the film with a dreaded x-rating , van peebles not only threatened to bring a lawsuit against jack valenti and the mpaa , but he also developed a little marketing scheme : he coined the phrases " rated x by an all-white jury , " which he put on the movie posters to help advertise the film . 
he also printed the phrase on tee-shirts which he had no problem selling . 
the storyline in " sweet sweetback " is deceptively simple . 
it takes place in los angeles , and van peebles stars as the title character , a tough male hustler of few words who grew up in a brothel , and makes money by doing what he does best : having sex . 
one day , he agrees to go with a couple of amiable white cops down to the station to make it look like they're bringing in suspects on a politically-charged case involving murder . 
however , on the way to the station the cops arrest a young black revolutionary named mu-mu ( hubert scales ) , who they proceed to beat viciously . 
acting out of complete impulse rather than political motivation , sweetback fights back and beats the cops to the brink of death . 
the rest of the film follows sweetback as he evades the cops on his way to eventual escape in mexico . 
although the repetition of watching sweetback run gets a little old by the end of the film , this plot allows van peebles' camera to roam the darker side of l . a . - the ghettos , alleys , and back-street whorehouses that other films had always overlooked . 
van peebles' entire point in making the movie was to secure on celluloid a vision of the black experience in america that other filmmakers had ignored . 
at the beginning of " sweet sweetback , " he offers this epigraph , which is a traditional prologue used in medieval times when a messenger brought bad news : " sire , these lines are not an homage to brutality that the artist has invented , but a hymn from the mouth of reality . . . " 
van peebles wanted to make sure that his vision was one of reality , not of exaggeration . 
of course , with today's abundance of rap and hip hop music that sings the same ode to black inner-city life , as well as films by spike lee , john singleton , and the hughes brothers , " sweet sweetback " doesn't seem all that revolutionary . 
it is important to remember that this film must be viewed in the context and time period in which it was made . 
at that time , " sweet sweetback " was so controversial that only two theaters in the entire united states would play it . 
distributors were petrified of a film that , in van peebles' words , gave the black audience " a chance to see some of their own fantasies acted out - about rising out of the mud and kicking ass . " 
of course , once it caught on , it caught on big . 
 " sweet sweetback " is now considered to be the film that kicked off the blaxploitation era , although van peebles disassociates " sweetback " from other movies like " shaft " ( 1972 ) and " the mack " ( 1973 ) , because those were financed by big hollywood studios . 
 " sweet sweetback " is also the only film deemed mandatory viewing by the black panthers . 
however , even if when viewed from an african-american perspective , " sweet sweetback " is certainly not without its controversies . 
when it was first released , an article was published in " ebony " magazine denouncing the film , while at the same time the black panthers used an entire newsletter to praise it . 
there have been arguments that the victory for sweetback is really no victory at all - beating cops and then running away to mexico is nothing to be proud of . 
others have pointed out that sweetback has little to say throughout the film ; he has no political motivations , and therefore the violence and havoc he wreaks is not rooted in fundamental beliefs , but in personal and selfish motives . 
still others point to the clich ? black potency that stereotypes sweetback as being good at nothing but having sex , illustrated in a scene where he gains the respect of a white biker group by bringing their female leader to orgasm . 
nevertheless , a movie like " sweet sweetback " cannot be made without conflicting points of view . 
it is a revolutionary movie not because it's about one man's defiance , but because it put front-and-center black issues that had never been dealt with before . 
until that point , american cinema was an almost exclusively white domain , and with the exception of sidney poitier , all black actors were relegated to specifically black roles that were important only in relation to whites . 
the fact that " sweet sweetback " was a movie by black about blacks , was something new ( in the opening credits , van peebles lists the starring actors as simply " the black community " ) . 
van peebles tells an interesting story that goes a long way toward defining the difference between " sweet sweetback " and all movies that had come before it . 
when the movie first opened , he saw it in a theater next to an older woman . 
near the end of the film , when sweetback is wounded by the police and stumbling through the southern california desert , she kept saying to herself , " oh lord , let him die . 
don't let them kill him . 
let him die on his own . " 
it was so ingrained in her mind that death was imminent for any african-american in a movie who rebelled against white authority , that she couldn't even conceive of the possibility that the film might end with his successful escape . 
and , of course , sweetback does escape , and the screen fills with the message : " watch out ! 
a baad asssss nigger is coming back to collect some dues . " 
beyond the political aspects , " sweet sweetback " is an entertaining picture , which van peebles always intended it to be . 
he squeezed every drop out of his limited budget , and produced a film that , although dated now , was technically fantastic at the time . 
he shot in rough , documentary-like fashion , while also utilizing almost every visual and aural trick his technology would allow him . 
he makes good use of older techniques like split screens , freeze frames , reversed color schemes , and overlapping images . 
the only time the film ever looks bad is during the night sequences , because van peebles simply did not have the needed equipment . 
watching " sweet sweetback " more than twenty-five years after its initial release , one realizes that it still has bite . 
arguments can be made that race relations in the united states have made quantum leaps since the early seventies , but there are still problems that are reflected in this film . 
but there is more to the film than its racial aspect . 
the legacy of " sweet sweetback's baadasssss song " is not only the plentiful amount of art and music told from the african-american perspective , but more importantly , the work of every artist who has fought to fund and produce that which is important to him . 

roger ebert asks in his review of sexy beast , " who would have guessed that the most savage mad-dog frothing gangster in recent movies would be played by . . . 
ben kingsley ? " 
my response would be that anyone who has seen alan arkin in wait until dark , henry fonda in once upon a time in the west , or anthony hopkins in the silence of the lambs should have guessed it . 
they should know that the way for a film to create a really creepy sociopath is cast someone who generally plays mild , sympathetic , or even ineffectual character roles . 
the same characteristics that make an actor seem gentle in most of his roles can work in his favor when a role calls for him to be fierce and vicious . 
that is the principle that works for kingsley in sexy beast . 
gary " gal " dove ( played by ray winstone ) has retired from a london career of crime and is living on a luxurious villa in spain . 
life has become a routine of sunning himself and relaxing . 
but his paradise is about to be shattered by a one-two-punch . 
the first punch is a boulder that comes rolling down the hill next to the villa . 
the second punch comes from gal's past . 
back in london gang boss teddy bass ( ian mcshane , tv's lovejoy ) is planning to break into a safety deposit room in a bank and he wants gal . 
he sends his most rabid henchman don logan ( ben kingsley ) to fetch gal . 
don will accept any decision gal makes from " yes " to " certainly . " 
however , if gal says " no " don will do whatever it takes to turn it into a yes including threatening guy's ex-porn- star wife deedee ( amanda redman ) . 
in the meantime don knows just how to get under everybody's skin . 
kingsley makes don a compact package of fury and nastiness . 
there are some serious problems in louis mellis's and david scinto's script that should have been caught before filming . 
when we see the actual crime we have no idea why gal was so important to its success . 
beyond an ability to use skin-diving gear , no special talents are required of him . 
any local hood could have done what gal is needed for . 
additionally the crime involves digging from a swimming pool to the bank vault , flooding the vault . 
no only could they have let the water out of the pool and avoided the complication altogether , but there is by far too much water to be accounted for by what was in the pool . 
in spite of the provocative title , the story is cliched and overly familiar . 
i know i have seen all the plot elements of sexy beast in old westerns like the law and jake wade . 
the story is usually of the reformed outlaw , a robert taylor type , who has hung up his guns and is trying for a life of peaceful respectability . 
the old gang , however , wants to do one more job with their old buddy and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go and git ? im . 
it is not a great plot . 
in sexy beast even the plot twists have gray beards . 
perhaps the film has a little more respectability because it was made not as a western but as a stylish british gangster film . 
it is an old plot dressed up to look new . 
if the plot is old , at least the style is creative . 
this is director jonathan glazer's first film , but he has reputedly done some notable tv ads for guinness stout . 
his style does have some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences . 
cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes . 
we see one side of a person's faces . 
but the other side fades into the darkness , a sort of metaphor for the half-world these characters in-habit . 
half of everything that is happening is also kept hidden . 
us yanks will have a hard time with some of the dialog . 
at least in my theater it was difficult to make out the words with the quiet speaking , the heavy accents , and the cockney language . 
sexy beast is a very and familiar minor plot lent respectability in the us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre , the london crime film . 
the plot may be new to british crime films , but it would be overly familiar as a western . 
further respectability comes from ben kingsley's high-powered performance . 
i give it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 

metro i've seen san francisco in movies many times . 
there was 1994's interview with the vampire and most recently the rock . 
now , yet again , san francisco is the setting for this movie . 
eddie murphy stars as inspector scott roper of the sfpd . he is their top hostage negotiator , and the very best at what he does . 
when his best friend on the force is killed by joe ( michael wincott , in a terrific performance ) , a psychotic , demented jewel thief , roger makes it his mission to capture the guy before he strikes again . 
meanwhile , roper tries to rekindle a relationship with his british ex-girlfriend veronica , while helping to rear a new up and comer from swat who's an expert sniper and marksman ( michael rappaport ) . 
despite the obligatory cop movie scenes ( does every cop/new partner movie have to start the same way ? ) 
where the sgt . 
assigns roper a partner , roper confronts the sarge , etc . , this film is still one heck of an explosive ride . 
a scene involving a cable car has to be seen to be believed , and boasts some amazing car stunts . 
eddie murphy shines in this tailor-made role , and for once , his character shows depth and concern . 
when confronting joe in prison , you can feel the anger drip from every word . 
michael rappaport is basically throwaway . 
he serves no purpose , except to be buddy to murphy and get disabled in the final reel so that eddie can save the day . 
typical action escapist fare . 
michael wincott offers the best performance as the crazed killer and jewel thief joe . 
never before have i seen such a villian written like this where i could actually believe that he was serious and take him seriously . 
maybe i just thought that this role was different due to wincott's perfectly raspy voice . 
i don't know . 
what i do know , though , is that although metro is basically a typical action retread , it manages to cover new ground and shed new light on tired old cliches' . 
the film is a triumph , and an entertaining one at that . 
it doesn't meander or trail off from its main character . 
an enjoyable two hours , metro is enjoyable , witty , action-packed , and fun , and makes for a great action movie that's perfect for all of us that need an escape from reality . 

bruce willis needs to stay away from straightforward action pictures . 
mercury rising adds to a growing list ( including such stinkers as the jackal , last man standing , striking distance and the last boy scout ) of stale actioners he has headlined . 
and though mercury rising tries to spice things up by throwing an autistic kid in the mix , it is every bit as stale . 
art jeffries ( bruce willis ) is your typical tormented fbi agent . 
you know the type , haunted by his job , yet so good at what he does that even physically assaulting another agent merely gets him a slap on the wrist . 
enter simon ( miko hughes ) , an autistic boy , who , like rain man and all other autistic people , is a savant . 
he can merely gaze at a super-encrypted message , and , while little computer beeps go off in his head , he can understand what it says . 
naturally , this talent has brought him to the attention of the federal government . 
lt . col . nicholas kudrow ( alec baldwin ) , an nsa official bubbling over with evil , has spent countless time and money implementing the newest " unbreakable " code , mercury . 
however , when two of his underlings ( robert stanton and bodhi pine elfman ) publish a mercury-encrypted message in a puzzle magazine as a final test of its effectiveness , simon cracks the code . 
naturally , this infuriates kudrow , who sends a terminator-like hitman ( l . l . 
ginter ) to eliminate the security hazard . 
and that's where art jeffries comes in . 
for some reason that's never explained in the film , the fbi is called in to help , and through a series of intricate machinations , art becomes the sole protector of the young autistic boy . 
in a few unrealistic sequences , he enlists the aid of a stranger , stacey ( kim dickens ) , to help out , but she is given very little to do overall . 
the central concept behind mercury rising is ludicrous . 
why bother trying to kill the kid . . . i 
mean , who would know ? 
it's not like the kid ( or anyone else for that matter ) knew he was cracking a government super-cypher . 
and even if he is eliminated , what does that help ? 
he's already proven that mercury can be broken . 
there's always the chance that someone else would crack it . . . but 
i guess without a kid in jeopardy , there's not much of a movie here . 
for all its faults , the film actually starts relatively well ( once you pass the painfully familiar teaser ) . 
the film flirts with developing real characters , and a semblance of a plot . . . then 
mr . terminator the hitman appears and everything begins going downhill . . . quickly . 
miko hughes does a decent job , for his age , at creating a touching performance . 
however , don't go to this film looking for any new insights into autism ( not that many people will ) . 
instead he merely becomes the latest unique partner in a routine buddy-cop movie ( think cop and a half . . . with a twist ! ) 
willis and baldwin are just overplaying to type . 
rather than creating a nuanced character , baldwin simply oozes sliminess . 
and for willis' part , he simply recycles the stock role of the loner cop/fbi agent ( which he has honed in the die hard series ) . 
as almost an afterthought , about halfway through , the film carelessly gives him a character trait ( an addiction ) , and then drops it in the next scene . 
but the biggest problem with mercury rising is the screenplay . 
this film wasn't well thought out at all . 
the film goes to extraordinary lengths to pad in as many convenient coincidences as possible . 
the carbon paper scene alone is unworthy of the most gullible audience member . 
at first the bad scenes just trickle in , but by the gruesomely bad finale they're a veritable flood . 
the film's few decent moments come in the form of bad jokes ( mainly from the geeks who developed the supercode ) . 
but they're not nearly enough to make the film worthwhile . 
mercury rising is a thriller that you're more likely to groan at than cheer . 

dark city is such a rare treat : it ? s a stunning , hyperkinetic vision of a place where our reality is fused with noir , science fiction and the darkest nights in manhattan and london . 
to boot , it is accompanied by an intense , well written and thoughtful story . 
movies of this caliber and idea aren ? t made too often , and it ? s unfortunate that i waited this long to see it . 
alex proyas , who ? s previous film the crow looked good but couldn ? t cover up the terrible acting or story , here shows a near masterpiece ; a combination of metropolis , edward hopper and phillip marlowe , fused seemlessly . 
at times it moves beyond film into artwork . 
it is the story of ? strangers ? , aliens from another planet ( and we know they ? re aliens because they shave their heads and wear overcoats ? one of the detractions of the film ) who experiment on humans to discover what makes them live , what makes up our ? soul ? . 
these aliens are superior to humans because they have mastered the ? ultimate technology ? of shaping matter with their mind , called ? tuning . 
they are aided by a human scientist , played by kiefer sutherland , who has ? betrayed his kind ? and at the start of the film watches as the entire city stops at exactly midnight . 
during this time , john murdoch , played swiftly by rufus sewell , wakes in a bathtub in a room with a swinging overhead light ( a terrific visual effect - not only is murdoch confused , but so is the audience ) . 
without a memory and a strange guilt that he may be a killer , he receives a phone call to flee , as the strangers are after him . 
i don ? t want to proceed to much further with the explanation of the story ; one of the pleasures of the film is watching it develop , in a way regaining murdoch ? s ? identity ? along with him . 
it ? s a pleasure to watch the characters develop through the cinematography . 
murdoch ? s wife , anna , is introduced through a stunning beam of light : she is a lounge singer who sings into a bright spotlight . 
shadows , outlines of men in hats watch , as she gently curves through the shine . 
we see the outline of her body from behind , an hourglass , as she sings a slow , rhythmic song . 
a great entrance . 
however , a film such as this is only successful if the morals and themes behind it are strong enough to leave the viewer satisfied . 
the city is nice to look at , but if it ? s a poor story then it ? s not worth watching . 
blade runner was popular not only because it ? s visuals , but it ? s story and themes were thought out and provoked strong response from the audience . 
it is discussed it and argued , therefore a success . 
other science fiction films of recent times , such as the fifth element , are nice to look at , but are dropped and forgotten because the cookie cutter moral behind them is so flimsy . 
we ? re left with ? love conquers all ? after finishing the fifth element . 
dark city is not so easily explained away . 
as the strangers discovered , locating the human soul and discovering what makes us survive is not such an easy task . 
where is reality ? 
dark city is certainly the best science fiction film of the 90 ? s , and ranks along with the best made in the 80s , such as blade runner and the two aliens films . 
perhaps it ? s the best of the both decades ; it had the darkness of the aliens films , as well as the visuals and compelling story of blade runner , but moved beyond , i think , because the themes behind it were much stronger . 
anyone who wants to make an argument for better science fiction films please feel free to write , i ? d love to hear it . 

a cinematic version of one of john irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if , as in the case of " simon birch , " the treatment is merely " suggested by , " rather than strictly based on , the book . 
suggested means that irving , author of the acclaimed " the world according to garp , " sold the rights to his novel " a prayer for owen meany " to the disney machine for $1 million , but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names . 
that's an odd decision--irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product . 
irving's books are rich and complex works , full of intriguing , colorful characters . 
 " a prayer for owen meany " is no exception ; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called simon birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice , " like strangled mice . " 
simon believes himself to be " god's instrument , " placed on this earth to somehow effect god's plan . 
simon is played by ian michael smith , who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as morquio syndrome which , among other things , prevents bones , ligaments , and joints from developing normally . 
smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for " simon birch " ; however , the producers unwisely favored form over function--smith's acting abilities are limited at best . 
another drawback is that in the book , simon's condition is described the way irving describes any of his characters--in careful , loving detail . 
watching " simon birch , " however , creates a different feeling altogether ; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character , surely something irving would not have intended . 
simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating , a combination of smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver , courtesy mark steven johnson , the film's director and screenwriter . 
fortunately , simon birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name . 
simon is more of a catalyst , allowing his co-stars to shape the story , and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances , saving the film from an obsequious , manipulative destiny . 
first and foremost is joseph mazzello ( " jurassic park " ) , who is nothing less than remarkable as simon's best friend , joe . 
mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for a 14 year old , ripe with laughter , pain , and tears ; he is certainly an emerging talent . 
ashley judd positively beams in her role as rebecca , joe's single mother , and oliver platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend , ben . 
david strathairn and jan hooks play the town's reverend and sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others . 
there's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from . . . 
well , that would be telling . 
perhaps " suggested by " the novel is the appropriate way to go after all , since " simon birch " only focuses on one chapter , one year , of simon's extraordinary life . 
the film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic , yet necessary given simon's lot . 
the flavor of irving's original novel remains , however--the passions , friendships , and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of gravestown , maine , and the engaging oddballs , both big and small , who reside there . 

in the finale of disney's " mighty joe young , " a 15-foot tall , 2000-pound gorilla holds a frightened young boy in its clutches as it topples from a crippled ferris wheel and plummets to the ground . 
upon impact , rugged everyman and perennial do-gooder bill paxton rushes in , containing the emotional crowd with an earnest " move along now folks , there's nothing to see here . " 
ok , so those aren't exactly the words he uses , but it's probably one of the few clich ? s not uttered in this unnecessary remake of an unnecessary remake of that mother of all monster movies , " king kong . " 
1949's " mighty joe young " was an update of that classic creature feature , also based on merian c . cooper's original story ( 16 years after " 'kong " it appeared the world was ready for a new take on the beauty and the beast fable ) . 
now some 49 years later , at least according to disney's way of thinking , the world is ready for one more . 
not so . 
the only--and i mean only--reason to see the 1998 version is for the special effects . 
and these , unfortunately , run hot and cold . 
today's joe young is designed and produced by special-effects whiz rick baker , who has been wowing audiences with his state-of-the-art make-up effects since 1971's " schlock " ( which , incidentally , featured a baker-enhanced " gorilla " ) . 
joe is a combination of animatronic effects , computer graphics , and that old standard , a man in a monkey suit . 
while there are occasional flashes of brilliance--baker's had a lot of practice with simian effects , after all , including " gorillas in the mist , " " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes , " and the 1976 remake of " king kong " --there's also some surprising cheesiness . 
one of the film's most embarrassing moments is when paxton's band of african trackers first encounter and pursue the larger-than-life primate ( in a scene unashamedly ripped off from " the lost world : jurassic park " ) . 
paxton jubilantly extols the beast's majestic gait at the same exact moment as joe , and the computer effects driving him , stutter to a halt . 
also , if the film's producers had wanted us to focus our attentions on the titular ape they shouldn't have paraded female lead charlize theron ( " trial & error " ) around in a seemingly-endless wardrobe of spaghetti-strapped tops . 
even joe seems distracted at times . 
the film piles on the clich ? s like there's no tomorrow , including the predictable plot ( anthro-zoologists ship gigantic gorilla to l . a . where urban havoc is inevitably wrought ) , predictable villain ( a lithuanian i think i overheard someplace ) , predictable love story ( bill and charlize--surprise ! ) , and predictable denouement ( " 'twas box-office receipts that killed the beast " ) . 
kids raised on " men in black " ( non-monkey effects also by baker ) are going to find ron ( " tremors " ) underwood's outing a little lame by comparison . 
while certainly better than 1978's " king kong lives " ( itself a lousy sequel to a not particularly good remake ) , " mighty joe young " proves how the mighty keep falling . 

this is not a simple plan about finding a plane load of money and getting away with the cash . 
this is more about a parable of greed , and how money can become the bane of your life . 
yes , there are elements of ? fargo' here ( the snow and cold ) , although not as vivid in the blood and gore department . 
it shows how greed can set of a chain of events leading to death and the destruction of lives . 
and how at the end of the day , the things that matter most are love , truth and honesty . 
although in one sense it may seem tedious , making a movie about the ugliness of greed ( not box office material ) , it does become tedious , not because of the morale ending , but because one expects the movie to end that way . 
this becomes apparent after the first murder to cover up the crime , the rest of the movie just spirals downward from there . 
the characters in this drama are a mixture of simple and intellectual folk , brothers and friends , who all fall prey to the avarice of money . 
they should have perhaps thrown in someone sensible , level headed and not affected by greed to give the party more balance . 
commendable is the exceptional performance of billy bob thornton , whose portrayal of the simpleton brother was masterful . 
bill paxton also gives a powerful performance as the greedier younger brother , whilst bridget fonda is convincing as the greediest wife , who indirectly causes the most problems . 
fill a room full of greedy people and several million dollars , and you will end up with a simple recipe for a blood bath . 
it's not a simple plan , when you shoot everyone you love for money , unless you're the menendez brothers . 

inspired by the 1958 film house on haunted hill starring vincent price . 
directed by william malone . 
starring geoffrey rush , famke janssen , and chris kattan . 
rated r ( contains violence , profanity , and brief nudity ) . 
synopsis : eccentric millionaire price offers $1 , 000 , 000 to each of his guests who appear at a gathering at a former sanitarium . 
the only catch is that they have to survive the night at the establishment , an establishment haunted by its former staff and patients . 
comments : house on haunted hill is based upon the original 1958 film of the same title directed by william castle and starring vincent price . 
in an obvious homage , the millionaire's name is price and he sports a thin mustache like price used to have . 
this is a pretty bad horror film , yet bad horror films sometimes are very entertaining , and house on haunted hill is just such a film . 
it is , surprisingly , better than another recent haunted house remake , the haunting , a film which owes its basis to the classic horror novel by shirley jackson . 
the haunting had literary pretensions and fell flat on it face . 
house on haunted hill owes its lineage to a b-movie 40 years old and makes no illusion that it's a crappy horror movie . 
thus , somehow , it proves slightly more successful . 
i can't think of another recent film which has had such an eclectic cast . 
it is this cast which lifts this ho-hum thriller into a borderline entertaining exercise in camp horror . 
price , the main character , is played by geoffrey rush , the academy-award winning actor of shine . 
rush seems to be making a downward spiral in the movie industry , a spiral reminiscent of ben ( ghandi , schindler's list ) kingsley's ridiculous appearance in the camp sci-fi classic species . 
i don't know why , but sometimes it's entertaining to see " quality " actors in bad movies . 
more surprises ? 
rising star taye diggs plays a stereotypical african american sports figure ( rather lamely too ) , and singer lisa loeb ( ! ) 
appears as a tv news reporter . 
the highlight of the cast , however , has to be saturday night live member chris kattan . 
kattan's comic sense provides several good humorous moments as he plays the hysterical proprietor of the former sanitarium . 
while the first half of the film leaves the audience guessing as to what's exactly going on , the second half dissolves into standard ghost story stuff and loses some of its suspense . 
a disappointingly cheesy ending really mars this movie too . 
house on haunted hill , i suspect , has just about left the second-run theaters . 
it's worth catching on cable next year , if you get a chance . 
if you have a choice , pick this movie over the haunting , it's the better of two evils , you could say . 
though , more appropriately perhaps , it'd be better to say that it's the better of two turkeys . 

the full monty is a whole lot of fun , its wacky , witty , and original . 
it's written and directed by relatively unknowns , simon beaufoy and peter cattaneo , who both turned up oscar nominations . 
how did this movie with a budget under 10 million gross over 175 million worldwide ? 
its been rumored that this film may be the second most profitable movie of the year ! 
and to think its about male exotic dancers , and not sinking ships . 
six steel workers who have been recently been laid off and are all looking for jobs . 
inspired by the success of a chippendale's production , gaz ( robert carlyle ) decides they should all put on a strip show to make some money quickly . 
as the six team up to put on the show of their lives , they run into a few problems . 
for instance , dave ( mark addy ) is worried about his weight , horse ( paul barber ) thinks he may be inadequate , and gerald ( tom wilkinson ) is worried about his reputation and timing . 
so when the night of the show comes , will the men be able to do the " full monty " ? 
as i said before this is a fun movie , and not just that its really artistically good . 
the writing and direction are great . 
the acting is appealing , all the performances have a human quality to them , so you can relate to at least one of the characters . 
the full monty received four oscar nominations including best picture . 
which left me wondering one thing , why didn't trainspotting get a best picture nomination last year ? 
while the full monty is a great lighthearted comedy , it doesn't carry the social impact of the brilliant trainspotting . 
still , the full monty is a great film , a must see ! 

according to the publicity material , with this movie the directors " hope to restore good old-fashioned bowling to its rightful place in the mainstream of american consciousness . " 
hmm . 
you never know , they just might be on to something . 
what with the rise of geek chic , lounge music and seventies fashion , the ever-contrary kids of the nineties might just latch on to bowling as another terminally unhip bastion of tackyana to claim as their own . 
but then , i doubt if kingpin will have anything to do with it . 
it's cheesy all right , but connoisseurs of bad taste will find this film exudes that bland smell of stale jokes rather than the invigorating stink of true kitsch . 
that's a shame , because , in the first ten minutes or so the film promises to be a lot more . 
woody harrelson plays the hotshot bowler on the rise , roy munson . 
the movie opens in the fifties with roy's dad dishing out the reader's digest/gumpian wisdom in scoopfuls , shifting to the 70s for a hilarious spoof of saturday night fever . 
the sardonic tone of the proceedings is much enhanced by the presence of bill murray , as the delectably slimy big ern mcracken . 
it's thanks to murray that the first quarter of kingpin seems so good - he gives the wry , derisive edge to this otherwise rather unfocused comedy . 
mccracken dupes munson into a hustling job , then abandons him to an angry mob who mangle roy's hand . 
then it's fast forward 17 years later when munson is a fat , balding loser with a prosthetic rubber hand . 
he's hopeless until he meets ishmael ( randy quaid ) , an amish amateur bowler that munson takes on as protege . 
so together they set out for the million dollar bowling tournament in reno , picking up pretty hustler claudia ( vanessa angel ) on the way . 
with the exit of bill murray , the filmmakers seem to have only one direction to go , and that's . . . 
dumb and dumber . 
yes , indeed , kingpin is brought to you by those modern proponents of laxative humour , peter and bobby farrelly , the directors of the aforementioned jim carrey vehicle . 
so , prepare for much slaparound comedy with flying rubber hands , distended nipples , ridiculous hair and bull semen . 
get set for stock fish-out-of-water situations when city-boy roy puts on a beard and tries to blend in with the amish community , or when suaku straitlaced ishmael takes on smoking , striptease and unchristian neighbour-socking . 
now , don't get me wrong , there's nothing wrong with cheap humour , and i had my fair share of lavatorial laughs with woody and randy . 
the trouble is that these jokes aren't bold or funny enough to drive a movie that bumbles along without much sense of direction . 
it lurches from sports movie to amish-mocking to road-trip to sentimental melodrama , ( pausing for a broadside spoof of indecent proposal , and many shameless plugs for the accompanying pop soundtrack ) , never quite getting it all together . 
some gags fall flat from a lack of build-up , while there are bits and pieces in the movie that simply don't do anything . 
why the long , unfunny fight in the car park ? 
why two of these ? 
why does that guy wear mascara , or that guy have a glass bowling ball with a rose in it ? 
the film is full of these half-thought-through ideas that give the impression of any old gaffer , grip or makeup artist throwing in random stuff and saying , " wouldn't that be funny ? " . 
well , no , actually . 
the actors don't do the movie much favours either . 
woody harrelson comes off okay , plausibly acting dumb , smart , cynical or innocent when the implausible script calls for it , but randy quaid is a ceaseless ham , and vanessa angel has no talent ( like schwarzenegger , she seems more convincing playing a computer-creation than a human -- take the tv series weird science . . . please 
 ) . 
even murray hams it up when he reappears in the movie's climax . 
all in all , a fairly useless attempt at comedy , and a certified no-hoper at kickstarting the bowling renaissance . 
we'll have to look to a reinspired john waters , or perhaps somebody from down under ( " strictly bowling " , anyone ? ) for the definitive bowling comedy . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 

when i arrived in paris in june , 1992 , i was surprised to find france plastered with posters twin peaks : fire walk with me , since the movie wasn't scheduled to open in the u . s . until late august . 
happily , the film--the prequel to david lynch's cult television series--was playing in a fancy , thx theater . 
unfortunately , the theater was far more impressive than the movie , which absolutely stinks , much like a french lavatory . 
worse , actually . 
fire walk with me ( directed by lynch ) will be completely incomprehensible to anyone who has not seen the tv series or read " laura palmer's secret diary . " 
for " twin peaks " junkies , like me , the movie is only marginally improved . 
the plot is jumbled and illogical , not to mention excruciatingly sluggish . 
the first 30 minutes , which have almost nothing to do with the main story line , feature chris isaak and kiefer sutherland as fbi agents investigating a murder in portland , oregon . 
the movie then stops in philadelphia for a nonsensical cameo by david bowie and a brief appearance by kyle maclachlan as dale cooper . 
lynch then drops this plot strand altogether and abruptly shifts the setting to twin peaks , washington--one year later . 
ah , twin peaks : " familiar territory , " you think to yourself as angelo badalamenti's distinctive musical score chimes in . 
wrong ! 
the movie proves that you really can't go home again , or at least lynch can't . 
only about a quarter of the characters from the tv series appear in the movie : leland palmer , bobby briggs , james , shelly , leo , the log lady and a few others--mostly in meaningless cameos . 
the rest of the " twin peaks " cast is nowhere to be seen , and consequently , lynch fails to recreate the spirit and flavor of tv's most enigmatic town . 
cast members michael ontkean , sherilyn fenn , piper laurie , and richard beymer are sorely missed , not to mention lara flynn boyle , who has been replaced by lackluster moira kelly in the crucial role of donna . 
the movie concentrates solely on laura palmer ( sheryl lee ) as she suffers through drug abuse , prostitution , and incest , during her miserable last seven days on earth . 
the night of laura's death , which is truly terrifying , is the film's only remotely effective sequence . 
we finally get to see exactly what happened to laura after she jumped off james' motorcycle and ran into the woods at that lonely traffic light in the middle of nowhere . 
her murder unfolds just as agent cooper reconstructed it in the tv series , which is gratifying for faithful " twin peaks " viewers . 
but it's an awfully small reward for sitting through a painfully awful movie . 

james l . brooks , one of the developers of the simpsons and director of broadcast news , returns to the big screen with this entertaining , if slightly flawed comedy . 
nicholson plays melvin udall , probably the most horrible person ever on the screen . 
he's racist , homophobic , and never has a good word to say to anyone . 
so , nobody talks to him , except waitress carol conelly ( t . v 
sitcom star hunt , who was last seen in twister , 1996 ) . 
naturally , udall , conelly and gay neighbor simon bishop ( kinnear ) who nicholson hates , all hit it off in the end . 
like good will hunting ( 1997 ) and titanic ( 1997 ) , even though the outcome is completely obvious , as good as it gets is an enjoyable , funny and warm comedy . 
nicholson is hilarious as melvin , churning out insults with superb relish . 
only nicholson could get away with the lines that melvin delivers . 
hunt is also good as waitress carol , and easily rises to the challenge of nicholson . 
there's also ( thankfully ) a bit of chemistry between them . 
kinnear , as the gay neighbor , seems to have a slightly underwritten role , he's more of a plot convience than a character . 
although his performance is good , his character just seems to exist to help melvin and carol come together . 
in fact , the scene stealer is simon's dog , who is funnier than nicholson . 
but then again , pets are always cute on screen . 
providing solid support is cuba gooding , jnr ( jerry maguire , 1996 ) and yeardly smith ( who is the voice of lisa simpsons in the simpsons ) although gooding isn't as good as is character in maguire , he is still fun . 
he overacts a little , but not so much as to be annoying . 
smith is also good , although she has a fairly small role . 
even director lawrence kasdan ( body heat , 1981 ) makes an appearance as a doctor . 
but this is primarily nicholsons film , and every scene he's in , he's steals it . 
he's character is so hateful , though , it's amazing that anyone talks to him at all , especially carol . 
and this is the films main problem . 
it's totally unbelievable that carol would ever consider liking melvin . 
she doesn't fall in love with him naturally , the film forces her to fall in love with him . 
also , melvins character seems to go too nice , too quickly . 
i would doubt anyone with a character like melvins would be able to turn back to a nice , loving person . 
it would take a helluva long time , much longer than this film would like to make out . 
brooks direction is good , though , if a bit average , but he usually manages to get an emotion out of the audience . 
he handles the comedy scenes better than the sentimental ones ( he tends to pile on to much schmaltz ) but generally he's good . 
there's also a nice soundtrack by veteran composer hans zimmer . 
but , generally , as good as it gets achieves what it sets out to do , which is to make the audience feel good by the end of the movie . 
the movie is a bit overlong , but nicholson is such good fun that the running time passes by pretty quickly . 
overall , as good as it gets is a fun movie , even though it may be unbelivable , and certainly worth seeing ( if just for jack nicholsons performance . ) 
not quite as good as it gets ( pardon the bad joke ) , but still good fun . 

 * * * the following review contains some harsh language . . . 
but what did you expect when you clicked on this title ? 
 * * * 
cast : kristen holly smith , danica sheridan , alex boling , michael dotson , sonya hensley , janet krajeski , sabrina lu , dionysius burbano , calvin grant , jeff b . harmon written and directed by : jeff b . harmon running time : 97 minutes 
 " the thought of losing you makes me all vomity inside . " 
--- blatz balinski ( danica sheridan ) laments the fact that her lesbian lover , april ( kristen holly smith ) , has just received a telegram from her ex-fiance . 
isle of lesbos is an incredibly offensive musical comedy about april pfferpot ( smith ) , a resident of the small town of bumfuck , arkansas who is about to get married to high school sweetheart and football hero dick dickson ( michael dotson ) . 
when april gets extreme cold feet she runs home , sticks a gun in her mouth , and pulls the trigger . 
instead of killing herself , she is magically transported through her mirror into the isle of lesbos , an alternate dimension where lesbians rule and no men are allowed ( except for lance , the homosexual toilet cleaner/slave ) . 
april loves her new home and friends , but dick and her parents are not so ready to give her up . 
mr . and ms . pfferpot ( director jeff b . harmon and janet krajeski ) decide they need medical help so they enlist the aid of dr . sigmoid colon ( also jeff b . harmon ) , who claims he can cure homosexuality . 
in actuality , dr . colon is homosexual as well and begins his special " treatment " on dick dickson ( unbeknownst to dick ) . 
when april turns down dick's demand for her to return to bumfuck , he decides to take matters in his own hands and attack the isle of lesbos rambo-style . 
instead of leveling the place he falls in love with lance ( alex boling ) and the two of them , along with april and her lover blatz , get married . 
 ( note to the filmmaker : why did the character of lance make asides to the camera followed by silence that i'm assuming was inserted for the purpose of waiting until the laughter of the audience had subsided ? ) 
april's parents , feeling like there is no recourse , call in a favor to president clinton and send a nuclear bomb ( whose circuitry inexplicably is made up of a homosexual performer ) their way . 
the bomb is a dud thanks to the work of the " circuitry " and they re-wire it and send it back to washington d . c . , destroying it . 
mr . and ms . pfferpot give up trying to get their daughter back and instead decide to join her as they have some alternative sexual practices of their own . 
i'm not sure if writer/director/co-star jeff b . harmon was purposely trying to offend people because he believes in some of the ideas his movie presents or if he was just going for cheap laughs . 
either way , he manages to present some of the most offensive material i have ever seen in a movie . 
the film opens with a preacher running a small african-american child out of town , and then later moves on to the hanging of a michael jackson impersonator by the ku klux klan ( during a jaunty musical number ) , preceded by remarks about " gays and straights finally being able to put their differences behind them and work together to hate others , such as the jews " . 
if harmon was merely trying to point out how idiotic society can be , then i apologize for being so harsh on elements of his film , but it is presented so mean spiritedly that i can't help but feel like he had some serious intent . 
as for the entire central theme of the movie , i'm afraid that it's one that i just don't get . 
i tried to keep an open mind while watching it , but the homosexual elements were just too prevalent for my tastes . 
it was hard enough to watch them bash other races and sexes without them preaching about the virtues of being homosexual and accepted by society . 
how does one expect to be accepted if they are just as guilty of non-acceptance ? 
i'm not prone to judging anyone and i believe that people should be free to explore whatever avenues they wish free from the scornful eye of society , but don't force your particular rhetoric down my throat if you aren't going to show the same respect for my preferences that you wish from me . 
again , maybe i'm missing the satirical point that harmon is trying to make , but if so , i think it could have been handled a little more tactfully . 
as far as musical comedies go , isle of lesbos is no trey parker and matt stone musical , but a good portion of the songs are maddeningly catchy . 
despite the disturbing visuals , " mom and apple pie " stuck with me for the rest of the day . 
speaking of disturbing visuals , " wedding bells ain't ringing " could have been a decent song , but the accompanying visuals of spousal abuse are more harrowing than this film should be displaying . 
 " i'm a lesbian " ( which is touted in the press release as being particularly popular ) is also pretty good , but a good portion of that could be due to the stellar singing voice of ms . smith . 
it's mainly on her excellent vocals that my rating of this film is based . 
the other performers are decent , save for the rosie o'donnell like performance given by danica sheridan . 
i have no inherent problem with her character ; it is just her singing voice that leaves little to be desired . 
one particular musical number , " lesbian rock " , was one of the lowest points i have ever experienced in my film-going life thanks to a strained and lackluster vocal job by sheridan . 
the film ends about twenty minutes before the credits actually roll . 
the remainder of the running time is padded out with a few more songs ( " lesbian rock " included ) and the ridiculously presented anti-nukes message tacked on to the end for no reason other than to make it a feature length film . 
once the " isle of lesbos reprise " was reached , i felt the story had already been wrapped up well enough to end it all . 
why was the film needlessly stretched out past its obvious end ? 
isle of lesbos is available on videocassette from www . indie-underground . com . 
the transfer is pretty clean ( and all the detail of the wrinkled cloth and paint backdrops are readily apparent ) and the film is letterboxed at approximately 1 . 85 : 1 . 
in many respects , isle of lesbos has incredible cult potential ( like a rocky horror for the new millennium ) . 
this film is by no means my cup of tea , but i know there are those out there who will enjoy it . 
if you think it might be for you , then by all means seek it out . 
i , on the other hand , will be cleansing my palette with a good action film like gladiator . . . 
wait . aren't gladiator films considered to be . . . 
oh , never mind . 

in the mid-1980s , following the splendid debut in hugh hudson's greystoke and relative success of first highlander film , it looked like christopher lambert's acting career might go somewhere . 
but , it wasn't meant to be , which became obvious following highlander ii . 
in this decade christopher lambert became associated with films with low budgets and even lower quality . 
very often such films were science fiction , which meant that the fans of that genre learned the hard way what to evade anything starring christopher lambert . 
whether it was because of real lack of talent , terrible miscasting or simple bad luck isn't important - the end result was almost always horrible . 
the same can be said for fortress , 1993 science fiction film directed by stuart gordon , director who created cult following with his 1980s horror gorefests like reanimator and from beyond . 
the movie is set in 2018 . 
for some undisclosed reason , usa introduced strict population control and couples are barred from having more than one child . 
jake ( christopher lambert ) and karen brennick ( lori laughlin ) broke that law and are caught by authorities on the border . 
sentenced to 31 years in prison , they are both thrown into fortress , privately owned correctional facility , equiped with state-of-the-art futuristic technology and run by computer called zed . 
although equiped with gismos that regulate every aspect of inmates' lives and make any escape impossible , prison authorities often use violence . 
jake survives many ordeals and earns respect of some inmates which would help him when he begins planing the escape . 
such escape should become necessity , because the warden poe ( kurtwood smith ) begins showing unhealthy interest in karen . 
after rather intriguing beginning and some interesting special effects that depict the futuristic settings of prison , this film soon starts sinking into mediocrity . 
the reason is in the screenplay that quickly degenerates into whole series of prison movie clich ? s and situations that are painfully predictable . 
by the time brennick begins his escape from fortress , those situations not only begin to look predictable , but utterly implausible too . 
of course , film never tried to explain why the country that lacks resources to support its present population happens to spend bucketloads of money on ultra-expensive supertechnology with sole intention of keeping alive most useless and dangerous members of the society . 
the initially interesting plot is done even more wrong by stereotyped characters , played by not too interested or talented actors . 
lori laughlin , although physically attractive , shows the acting ability of sequoia . 
kurtwood smith as prison warden is rather uninspired , capable of solid , yet forgettable performance . 
lambert's performance is also good , but even the bigger talent couldn't help this film , destined to end in oblivion . 

it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly . 
i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . " 
yet it's almost as good . 
it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral . 
elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) . 
without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton . 
the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves . 
 " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these . 
a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here . 
but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) . 
what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too . 
it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag . 
so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity . 
in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) . 
instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion . 
there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching . 
in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) . 
but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof . 
yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story . 
when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights . 
there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror . 
during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? " 
streeming through my head . 
in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then 
again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) . 
instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches . 
most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation . 
his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him . 
the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real . 
jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money . 
the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great . 
i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character . 
thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable . 
he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role . 
the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff . 
even fonda shows off her talents nicely . 
and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved . 
and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) . 
and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss . 
i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway . 
for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending . 
imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky . 
the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day . 
but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile . 
at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 

oh god how many john grisham lawyer films we have been munundated with ! 
in a perfect world , " a civil action " would be a breath of fresh air . 
it's cynical about lawyers in a way that grisham isn't . 
it's romantic in the exact opposite way a grisham book/film isn't . 
and , the capper , it has no distinct ending , and the law in hollywood films is that above all else , you must have an ending . 
even if it's based on a true story , a true story which hasn't yet ended , you must supply an ending , a false one , but an ending nevertheless . 
hell , " a civil action " is even more sly and more witty than any of the grisham works put together ( and that includes " the firm , " the only novel of his that will ever be regarded as a classic ) . 
yet it's also oddly and slightly unsatisfying . 
weird . 
this is , in fact , a steve zallian film , not just the work of a hack , and zallian is the director of the much-admired " search for bobby fischer " ( didn't see it ) and writer of none other than " schindler's list . " 
in short , i like this guy , and am a sucker for the way he tells his stories . 
after all , apart from the obvious it's-a-holocaust-film and it's-a-spielberg-film , isn't " schindler's list " just a damn brilliant film , not so much a holocaust film as it is a wonderful character study . 
 " a civil action " is the same way : it's narrative is split between being a lawyer film and being a character study . 
and it's here that the film seems to go a bit wrong . 
the main complaint of this film is that while , yes , it's an engrossing lawyerly tale , it has no real ending , and that's not necessarily the problem with the film . 
it's that it's just kind of unsatisfying . 
if this were a great film , it would feel complete , and still end basically the same way . 
but this film just seems to end , and i don't want to be stupid and suggest an alternate ending should be tacked on : imagine , if you will , being one of those the film is about , looking forward to this film , and then discovered the truth has been through a surrealistic and unpleasant hollywood filter , just so the many won't bitch about what is , essentially , genuine . 
but the fact that it just ends is not , in all actuality , what is wrong with it . 
it's rather that zallian has chosen , in the last half hour , to adandon the traditional lawyer story , and chose the other part of his story , the one about the lawyer , one jan schlictman ( john travolta ) , who's shown in the opening and throughout most of the movie as a heartless but brilliant lawyer , brilliant because he's manipulative and he always wins . 
it wishes to make it all about jan in the end , but the truth is , his change , although nicely done , is not full . 
we see him suffering from a personal crisis , and travolta does do a pretty good job in depicting his change of heart , but in the end , we don't fully believe it . 
and i think that the problem is when he has made his decision , the film choses an odd angle to go at , a noble one , but one that gives the film's conclusion that of incompleteness . 
in the opening of the film , we see him doing his old schtick , manipulating courts , winning cases effortlessly , and then discussing on a heard radio interview how great he is at his job and how much he cares for his cases . 
in short , he's full of bullshit and we know it . 
in the film , he takes a case that is hardly desired : a town where several of the children have died mysteriously of lukemia and the source of the illness seems to be from a local factory that may or may not have been dumping waste into the river . 
point one , it's not of the usual criteria ( jan points out , wickedly , that dead or wounded children aren't nearly as sympathetic as those struck down in the midst of their success ) . 
point two , it has been through several lawyers . 
after turning them down , jan changes his mind ( a muddled scene - he stops his car on a bridge , looks out . . . is he feeling a sense of overachievement ? ) , and he and his team of lawyers ( tony shalhoub , zeljko ivanek , and accountant william h . macy ) head out to the town to do battle with the town's company . 
they spend millions of dollars examining the land , test the water , what have you ( this is where stephen fry , a possible oscar nominee for his brilliant performance in " wilde , " pops up thanklessly ) , and in the meantime question the parents of the dead children , and then , unsuccessfully , the workers at the plant . 
they also find themselves clashing with a brilliant lawyer for the company , the eccentric jerome facher , played by robert duvall ( more on him later on ) . 
as we progress , we get so involved in the way the story is being told , which is engulfing everything around it , including the individual and brief stories of some of the townspeople ( one of the best is a bit with james gandolfini as an employee of the plant living across the street from kathleen quinland , who lost her child , who begins to have a personal crisis ) . 
things begin to go downhill for the lawyers in the second half , as they are up against impossible odds : the judge ( john lithgow ) is not only a strickler , but a pal of facher ; the employees of the plant are either afraid or to loyal to testify ; no concrete evidence is being found , depsite the money spent to find it ; and they are quickly running out of money . 
as macy mortgages everything he can , including their homes and their office , he slowly loses his sanity ( his meatiest role since , oh , " fargo " ) , and we the audience begin to feel a real loss of hope for our protagonist . 
in fact , the last half hour is such a change from the rest of the film and so unresolved that it has been widely panned as not being up to par ( owen gleiberman , especially , criticized the film for not being overly-dramatic . . . i 
suppose like a grisham novel ) . 
this wouldn't be so if the change in jan had not been handled the way it is : instead of having a change of heart and automatically being perceived as good , he's seen as being still full of bullshit . 
because he doesn't take stock in the cares of his partners , and causes them all to lose their money and noteriaty in the lawyer field because he wants to help the people of the town , he is instead seen as being of good nature but not sure how to bring that out . 
the final half tries to redeem this , as must have been the point of making this in zallian's mind , but what follows is a series of scenes where we merely see him making personal stands for his beliefs , and though he has changed considerably from the opening moments when he's seen speeding back and forth from the town that wishes to employ him ( and thusly receiving two speeding tickets ) , we still feel that the big change in his life is that he's not rich and esteemed anymore ( the film's final title card is witty but in all actuality shallow ) . 
the fault is not that there is no closure to the court case ( it's still going on , you know ) , but that its personal story feels like it needs either another chapter or another angle in the final one it has . 
we need to feel like the character has really made a big change in his life , and that the story is how a story of strife like the one of the town could inspire such a whopping change in his personal life . 
it only feels like half of that . 
maybe even less . 
and it's not travolta , who does a great job here ( though never to be a truly memorable performance of his ) , but rather zallian , whose final chapter needs a rewrite . 
up to then , though , it's an engrossing drama , one of the best of the year in fact , and one of the best lawyer films , period . 
the reason is because it recognizes that a court trial is not about those being defended or prosecuted , but rather it's about the lawyers , the knights who battle eachother . 
we learn that the company is almost positively to blame for the deaths in the town , but the reason it can't be blamed is because it has the best prosecution you can find . 
and duvall's facher is such a brilliant character and he does such a magnificent job at portraying that man that it's almost easy to overlook how subtley great he is . 
facher is seen as an elderly man , a goofy eccentric , carrying a broken brown bag with stickers on it , eating lunches out of paper bags , and making a point to take time out of his day to listen to the radio , and scold anyone who interupts him . 
but look deeper and you see a master at work : his evil and manipulative nature are hidden under the eccentricities that others don upon him , and it's difficult as hell to clearly generalize him in any way . 
that's why i liked this film : it's hard to put a pointer on . 
you can never see exactly where this film will land , and even when the credits roll , you still aren't sure what to make of it . 
call it the zallian effect . 
same thing happened with " schindler's list " ( not that i'm comparing oskar schindler to jan schlictman ) . 
each film is so greatly crafted that you can't help but get involved in its broad storytelling , interesting characters , and , most peculiarly , the wit that comes along with it . 
if only it felt totally complete ( like , say , " schindler's list , " though at this point it may be unfair to make comparisons between the two ) , it might have been one of the best films of the year , and along with that , a full breath of fresh air . 

ingredients : man with amnesia who wakes up wanted for murder , dark science fiction city controlled by alien beings with mental powers . 
synopsis : what if you woke up one day , and suspected you were not on earth , and instead were part of an experiment in a giant space terrarium manipulated by intergalactic alien zookeepers ? 
in dark city john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) has this problem . 
dark city starts out like a 1940s noir amnesia detective mystery . 
poor john wakes up with amnesia in a hotel room with a dead dame in one corner . 
a mysterious phone call tells him to get the heck out of there , and soon enough john is chased all over town by a murderous army of pale people in black trench-coats , as well as by the police , and the dogged inspector bumstead ( william hurt ) . 
is john a murderer , and what can his missing memories tell him ? 
he searches through his own wallet for possible contacts and clues . 
but when the clues don't fit , it doesn't just confuse him ; it causes john to go so far as to question the whole nature of reality in the dark city . 
to john , something is fishy , and very unreal about this city . 
how come it's always dark , and nobody seems to remember what they did this morning ? 
and how come nobody seems to remember how to leave the city , or how to get to nearby shell beach ? 
every night , around midnight , john notices that the whole city enters a state of suspended animation , and at this time , creepy alien experimenters known as the 'strangers' come out and do nasty things like inject fake memories into people's heads with big hypodermic needles . 
the strangers have the ability to 'tune , ' or warp reality using telepathic powers . 
turns out , the city is not on earth at all . 
and the reason why john doesn't fall victim to the nightly suspended animation , is because he is a human mutation that possesses the same god-like reality-warping abilities as the strangers . 
even with the help of scientist dr . daniel schreber , can john take back the dark city ? 
opinion : director alex proyas ( he also directed the crow ) mentions this in the dark city press kit : in films , science fiction is always " used to have big spaceships blow up cities . 
i think we're a little tired of that . " 
according to director proyas , probably the most interesting thing about dark city is its layers . 
it's designed so that you can watch the film over again , and examine it from the perspective of a main character other than murdoch . 
it's a philosophical piece . 
cinematic science fiction is basically a thinly disguised shootout between the good humans and the bad aliens ( whether they be klingons , giant bugs , or proponents of the dark side of the force ) . 
but science fiction in books reaches beyond the 'shoot-em-up' level and targets the big questions , questions like who are we ? 
what is the human condition ? 
what is ethical ? 
what would a true human being do ? 
far from comic book style on the order of spawn , batman , or the mutant ninja turtles , dark city not only features the showdown between good humans and powerful aliens , but it also asks questions worthy of films such as brazil or blade runner . 
dark city is what philosophers would call an existentialist screenplay . 
a little more than 200 years ago , the world was filled with unhappy peasants - - unhappy because nearly every aspect of their lives was controlled by totalitarian , military , conformist , medieval regimes . 
the people took refuge in religion , the idea being that earthly life was a time of suffering , but after death , heaven would be available . 
meanwhile , the state used these same ideas to prop up their regimes ; the king was often head of the religion and therefore sanctioned by heaven . 
when science finally overturned religion , the medieval dictatorships came tumbling down and were replaced by democratic governments . 
but the new fear was that the power of science and experimentation would be used to create a world order as darkly totalitarian as the old . 
this is the time period when writers and philosophers such as freud , kant , kafka , nietzsche , and dostoevsky pondered what society should be , and what place the individual had in it . 
the existentialists' in particular wrote about the power of the lone individual against what may be a hostile , indifferent , or alienated universe . 
in dark city , when the last dying , defeated alien asks john murdoch why the aliens' scientific experiments on the human beings' brains failed , murdoch replies , pointing to his head , " because the human condition isn't located in here . " 

house on haunted hill ( 1999 ) starring taye diggs , geoffrey rush , ali larter , famke janssen , peter gallagher , bridgette wilson , max perlich , lisa loeb , james marsters , and chris kattan . 
directed by william malone , written by dick beebe , 
 " house on haunted hill " initializes itself to the audience with a scene involving zombie-like mental patients attacking and murdering doctors in the goriest ways possible . 
one doctor is killed instantly after having a pencil rammed completely through his neck . 
a nurse has her head forced into a barrel of water . 
these mobs of zombies presented are like those in previous b-horror flicks , with grunting noises and cadaverous movements . 
except this time , at the end of the millenium , the film is given the power to show exactly how horrific these creatures can be . 
in past horror films , the actual murder scenes are left out or not shown forcing the viewer to assume their own nasty bloody deaths for the hapless victims . 
 " house on haunted hill " doesn't want their audience to have an imagination , everything is provided for them to watch and squirm , not think . 
this nonsense violence thrown out of nowhere is unfortunately the most refreshing part about this film . 
 " house on haunted hill " , which is based on the 1958 film of the same title , introduces a handful of characters as quickly as it can , following the opening blood fest . 
the film has no intention of providing character development or a laudable plot . 
the aim here is to scare the audience with chilling , unexpected shots of blood , guts , and mayhem . 
however , the film is neither scary nor unpredictable . 
the plot involves five people who are dared to spend the night in a haunted house for one million dollars by an amusement park owner ( geoffrey rush ) . 
each character is a failure in the external world and acknowledges that they would do anything for that money . 
since the characters are immediately generalized as either greedy or caring , the expectations of who will survive or not is killed five minutes after you meet them . 
the problem is that every character is not likable . 
the two who come closest to being civilized are a womanizer ( taye diggs - who should be doing films a lot better than this with all of his talent ) and a businesswoman who accepts being womanized ( ali larter ) . 
the characters presented are so annoying and pathetic , that it is hard to cheer for them or scream them . 
the worst character in this film , or maybe in any film released this year , is chris kattan's watson pritchett . 
he spends the whole film whining about the spooky house in a tone so irritating and inappropriate , that he unintentionally begins to seem more evil than the house itself . 
waiting for pritchett to die , was a strenuously difficult act to sit through . 
the most humorous actor of the bunch is geoffrey rush playing steven price ( an homage to victor price who starred in the original ) . 
playing the rich man who supposedly organized the party , he plays the role perfectly in a twisted way where it is obvious that he is up to something just by the expressions on his face . 
however , rush is pretty much wasted in a confusing subplot involving a hateful marriage with evelyn price , played by famke janssen . 
the main problem is that " house on haunted hill " is not scary . 
to top off that huge disappointment , every actor was wasted and the script was completely ludicrous . 
if the annoying characters and hilariously bad dialogue were intentionally underdeveloped ( similar to " deep blue sea " ) , the goal for creating a creepy , suspenseful action film was completely missed . 

for a movie with such deep religious and spiritual undertones , it is surprising to find the messenger : the story of joan of arc such an ungodly mess . 
in the early to mid 1400's , there was little in the way of spiritual light to be found shining from the heart of a man or woman . 
the church was a dismally dark and oppressive place . 
france was involved in " the hundred years war " against england . 
there was no strong political leadership in the country . 
morale was low , there being little hope for the future . 
it was within this setting that a young french girl began hearing " voices " and seeing " visions . " 
convinced that these were messages from god , she brazenly demanded to see the dauphin in order to deliver the message directly to him . 
the message : if he would give her an army to command , she would deliver to him the crown . 
he does . . . 
and she does . 
then , once seated on the throne , he abandons her to her english captors . 
director luc besson ( the fifth element ) may have co-wrote the script but he never appeared to have a proper handle on the material . 
the inconsistencies of the cast , the confusing blur of the violent battle scenes , the inappropriate musical score , and the lack of a vibrant life force at the center of the film adds up to a largely disappointing end product which is oftentimes unintentionally laughable . 
his biggest miscue was to cast his wife , milla jovovich ( the fifth element ) in the title role . 
ms . jovovich , looks spectacular as joan , clad in battle armor , astride a similarly protected horse . 
if looks were enough to fully convey a character , she would have been brilliant . 
since it isn't , she tried ( and failed ) to act the part . 
her joan is unbalanced , " inspiring " the troops merely by screaming stridently and waving her banner or sword over her head like a woman possessed . 
john malkovich ( being john malkovich ) fares a bit better as the dauphin , who joan would see on the throne as charles vii . 
an easily manipulated man , his weakness of character foreshadows the betrayal of joan which would lead to her death . 
faye dunaway ( the thomas crown affair ) gives a strong performance in minimal screen time as the dauphin's mother-in-law and chief advisor . 
the army under joan's command are comprised of comical figures , more stooges than soldiers . 
the one exception would be tcheky karyo ( la femme nikita ) as dunois , the man who was leading the attack prior to joan's arrival . 
trying to plan a systematic campaign , he sees his leadership authority negated by joan's insistence on following her " visions . " 
dustin hoffman ( sphere ) has a small inhuman role as joan's conscience which begins speaking to her while awaiting trial . 
dressed like cloaked monk , he leads her to doubt herself and her " revelations . " 
as well she should . 
scriptures do speak of revelation . 
god , via his gift of holy spirit , is able to communicate to men . 
three of the nine manifestations of holy spirit listed in 1 corinthians 12 deal with receiving revelation . 
they are : word of knowledge , word of wisdom , and discerning of spirits . 
even the scriptures themselves are a result of god giving revelation to his " holy men . . . 
who spake as they were moved by holy spirit ( i . e . 
by revelation . ) " 
but the scriptures also caution us : 
 " beloved , believe not every spirit , but try the spirits whether they are of god : because many false prophets are gone out into the world . " 
1 john 4 : 1 [kjv] 
joan's end , ( being burned at the stake at the age of 19 ) , the frenzy ( mob rule ) and blood lust her inspiration wrought , and the death , pain , or suffering which followed her campaign all point to a devilish influence rather than a godly one . 
while her conviction and intense believing remains an admirable quality , she was , as others have been before and since , misled by the spiritual master of deception . 
as a messenger , she was quite effective . 
she was just confused as to whose message she was carrying . 

the reunion film is not an original idea in any way , shape , or form . 
it's been done throughout film history over and over again , and has become one of the many sub-genres , like the prep school sub-genre , the angst-filled teen sub-genre , and the slasher sub-genre . 
what makes " peter's friends " so remarkable is not how it doesn't follow the rules of this sub-genre , but how it follows it so well , and creates characters that i wouldn't mind hanging with . 
what are the rules of the reunion sub-genre ? 
well . . . . 
1 . you need a group of friends , most of them married or at least dating , and sometimes even married or dating eachother . 
2 . you need to have them brought back together over some sort of a crisis . 
3 . they are not to have spoken together much since they split apart . 
4 . the reunion has to come in intervals divisible by 10 . 
5 . they all have to be slightly to highly neurotic . 
6 . the reunion has to bring them together , seperate them with little crises , then bring them back together because , after all , they're friends . 
7 . there has to be some sex or at least some making out either between the friends or with other people that are there or were invited . 
8 . eightly , they're all unhappy or marginally so . 
9 . there's some sort of sexual tension amongst some of them that's built up over the years . 
10 . the friends are all wildly successful in the world of entertainment and the arts , sometimes internationally so . 
11 . the film is filled with nostalgic radio hits from the time when they were friends , sometimes causing them to get together in dance/song . 
since it follows these rules so closely , it will probably be ( and has been ) coined off as just a " british 'big chill . ' " 
and in some ways it is . 
both follow the rules , as i said , and both feature lots of bitching , big confessionals , and broken relationships . 
but while " the big chill " was , at least to me , a tad too whiny and unsatisfying , " peter's friends " hits its mark , making this film funny , dramatic , and poignant . 
the friends of peter's were all in the same theatre group back in '82 , performig wildly outrageous british acts for people far too stuck up to enjoy them ( the opening scene has them all dancing in tux tops and tutus ) . 
after peter's ( stephen fry ) wealthy father ( richard briers , hardly on screen enough to register , but oh well ) dies , leaving a giant mansion to him , he has to decide whether or not to keep it . 
not sure what to do with it immeadiately , he decides to throw a giant reunion party , inviting back all his old chums . 
of course , all or most of his chums follow the tenth rule . 
andrew ( kenneth branagh , also directing here ) is an actor who's unhappily married to a tv star , carol ( co-writer rita rudner ) . 
maggie ( emma thompson ) is a successfuly publisher of self-help books , but looks like she needs them more than her customers , as she is lonely and unhappy . 
roger and mary ( hugh laurie and imelda staunton , who were also married in " sense and sensibility " ) are married , and are the most successful creators of jingles in the uk , but have suffered a tragedy as one of their newly born twins has recently died . 
and sarah ( alphonsia emmanuel ) is as promiscuous as ever , having a new boyfriend as of two weeks named brian ( tony slattery ) who's married and wants a divorce because of her , giving her doubts . 
as for peter , things seem okay . . . 
the film features lots of inner-friend jokes , and even some old theatre anecdotes ( which i at least find a lot of fun in , as i've done lots of theatre myself ) . 
and there are big confessions , brawls between the friends , and by the end , almost everyone is unhappy , even though some have resolved their problems long before the end ( which i kinda dug ) . 
the final twist would seem forced an anti-climactic , but for some reason , i felt the same way the rest of the friends did . 
maybe it's because the people in this film are so likable that i just wanted to join their clique . 
that's really what makes " peter's friends " so lovable : the way you just want to hang with a group of friends who can be so dysfuntional sometimes , but when someone's in crisis , can come together wonderfully for one another . 
it's when you have a giant crisis like this and people want to selflessly help you out instead of subtely pushing you away that makes you realize you have true friends , and these people are true friends . 
not to mention kenneth branagh is able to make the film seem nostalgic for the 80s ( a decade i grew up in , unfortunately ) without taking us outside of the 90s . 
there are some 80s classics and anti-classics like tears for fears " everybody wants to rule the world , " but unfortunately no stupid/fun 80s songs ( i think if i ever did an 80s reunion film , i'd put some crap go gos song on , or at least some good old " come on eileen " ) , but this is the british 80s we're talking about . 
oh well . 
but anyway , the direction is pretty good , although nothing amazing . 
branagh's forte is really making shakespeare fresh and magical , but at least he's very good with making a less ambiguous film like this . 
the writing is good from rita rudner and martin bregman , with lots of good one-liners , and even some really bad but good puns ( to mock the fact that andrew lives in l . a . , peter , while cutting some logs , asks him is he has wood in l . a . , and andrew says , " no , but we have hollywood " - punishment like that ) . 
the actors , as in most speaking movies , are better than their material , though , with some stand-out performances to the six friends , as well as the outsiders like slattery , rudner , and phyllida law as the old housekeeper of the peter's mansion . 
a little note should be made about hugh laurie's performance , as he looks like he took some massive doses of prozac before doing this - i mean , i've never seen him actually act this dramatically . 
 " peter's friends " is a really enjoyable film which makes people like me pine for some sort of future reunion , although i don't know what kind i'll have ( like most people , i don't look forward to my high school reunion ) . 
because of the way these friends are still able to maintain the same amount of care they have for one another and after such a long period of seperation , i just look forward to the day when i can have friends like that . 

harmless , silly and fun comedy about dim-witted wrestling fans gordie and sean ( david arquette and scott caan ) who idolize current world championship wrestling heavyweight champion jimmy king ( oliver platt ) . 
when king is screwed out of his title by a corrupt promoter ( joe pantoliano ) , gordie and sean take it upon themselves to find their fallen hero and restore his glory . 
my biggest fear about ready to rumble was dispatched early on , as the filmmakers are quick to show that wresting is indeed choreographed ( but not fake , mind you ) . 
the hook of the movie is that gordie and sean are just too stupid to realize that . 
arquette and caan are suitably over the top with their performances , which is exactly what a movie like this requires , and oliver platt ( one of my favorite actors ) is a riot as the drunken washed-up ex-champion . 
many have scoffed at the idea that platt should be playing a heavyweight champion wrestler with an unbeaten record , but for me it just added to the " silly factor " of the film , thereby increasing my enjoyment of it . 
one casting complaint however : rose mcgowan as a sexy dancer ? 
please . . . 
if rose mcgowan is sexy then i'm marilyn manson . 
given the current state of the actual wcw , if oliver platt were appearing as jimmy king right now on wcw programming , he'd be the most popular guy they have . 
on a similar note , the " plot line " of the wresting portions of the film are more entertaining than anything the wcw writers have been able to come up with in the last two years . 
although one does have to ask . . . 
why would any wrestling promoter fire the head wrestler of a company who is both unbeaten and extremely popular with the fans ? 
director brian robbins ( you'll remember him as eric from tv's " head of the class " ) just knows how to make good dumb movies . 
this movie fits in nicely with his previous efforts good burger and varsity blues . 
and screenwriter steven brill ( the epic mighty ducks trilogy , late last night ) manages to keep things both sophomoric and clever at the same time , with almost all the jokes of the film getting a laugh out of me . 
the only exceptions to that were : 1 ) a scene involving a van full of singing nuns and 2 ) any scene involving the old woman wrestling fan . 
those moments made me cringe and/or groan . 
as an added bonus though , the audience is treated to outtakes from the film as the final credits roll . 
[pg-13] 

according to popular film opinion , a film's greatness is determined by time . 
take for example " casablanca . " 
great film , even today . 
it's still as powerful as it was when it came out and still as romantic and tragic . 
another example would be " star wars , " which had a very , very healthy box office gross despite the fact that we had all seen it about 3 billion times before . 
but as i rewatched " independence day " when it came out on video after being the number one hit of 1996 , i kinda felt like it wasn't as cool as when i had first seen it . 
i had liked it when i saw it the first time ( * * * was my original view ) and basically saw it as a good " escape film . " 
but when i rewatched it , i felt cheated . 
thus , the curse of the " event film . " 
 " independence day " is like that kid who come out of nowhere and makes everybody happy at once ( except for a couple kids - the critics , in this situation ) . 
but after a while , this kid becomes annoying and you just wait for the next one . 
well , this kid is the " event film " in my little analogy . 
and when i rewatched " independence day , " not only did it not look cooler at all on the big screen , but i felt insulted the whole time . 
there are too many gaping craters in the plot and you just aren't sure if it's comedy or hokey drama . 
one scene , you'll see a hilariously nebbish scene between jeff goldblum and judd hirsch ; the next you'll see a bunch of military uptight guys walking around , saying corny lines . 
the worst is a scene between brent spiner and bill pullman where spiner is sayinig something innocently funny but is barked like a junkyard dog by bill pullman who gives him the most unitentionally funniest speech since the end of " glen or glenda ? " 
now this annoying kid's problem is that in the process of trying to make everyone like him all at once , he shows he has no balls . 
and " independence day " has no balls . 
it plays it safe everywhere . 
it throws in a ton of action that is borrowed from other superior films . 
the chase scene between the alien ship and will smith is straight out of " star wars . " 
i mean , isn't that devil's den ? 
and the aliens are about as anticlimactic as demi moore's breasts in " striptease . " 
they're these octopus men , boring freaking octopus men . 
i mean , come on . 
the aliens in " 2001 " were more interesting and you didn't even see them ! 
basically the plot is straight from a b-movie from the 50s : aliens come to earth and we wonder if they're hostile or peaceful . 
okay , it's an interesting topic , but it's not handled greatly . 
now they aren't and somehow a computer geek , jeff goldblum , figure out they're using our satellites as a countdown to destruction . 
yep . 
these aliens are not only heavily armed , they're stupid too . 
they also use the same kind of computer as we do , but that comes about later . 
the president ( bill pullman ) , who's under attack for being a wimp , decides this would be a nice time to be belligerent , and he decides he'll stay in the white house which the aliens have covered . 
i don't care if it's bob freaking dole in the white house , get him out of there . 
i don't care if you have to inject him with sodium pentathol , just get him out of there . 
later on , he's stupid and wants to fly in the attack on a big alien ship . 
i think it's time for impeachment for this guy . 
he's more senile than reagan on pot . 
then there's a cocky pilot ( will smith ) who is the only person to survive the counter-attack on the second day and becomes moses in leading his children to the elusive area 51 ( the film's only sign of being brave ) . 
his girlfriend's a stripper sharing a subplot with " striptease " in that she has to do it for her son . 
come on , she has a fighter pilot boyfriend/soon-to-be fiance . 
i think she can quit that job and get a more respectable job at long john silvers . 
she's also the few , the proud , the lucky to survive the igniting of l . a . ( as well as her dog , who narrowly survives ) . 
there are some bright spots . 
they tossed in enough old film homages to keep me laughing . 
the best one is when jeff goldblum ( nicely named david ) turns on his computer and a picture of hal comes up and says , " good morning , dave . " 
and they even played r . e . m . 's 
 " it's the end of the world as we know it ( and i feel fine ) at the beginning . 
and judd hirsch steals the film by actually acting great ( he's a stereotype , but i just loved the man anyway ) . 
but there are no real subtle comic moments . 
will gets way too many one-liners and he has no one to play off of ( execept jeff towards the end , and the two do great ) . 
as i said , this film has no balls . 
it is just aiming for a crowd pleaser and that's what it is . 
but after a couple months , we all move on to the next " event " film while intaking little films and a couple indy ones for good measure . 
but at least the indy ones last for a lifetime . 
this one's short on batteries . 

mr . nice guy is the latest jackie chan film , so you should know what to expect . 
a weak plot , terrible dialogue , very little acting ability , but some jaw-dropping action sequences that nearly make the rest of it worthwhile . 
however , mr . nice guy lacks the sparkle of jackie's best efforts , and its weaknesses are more glaring than ever . 
jackie chan plays , who else , jackie . 
this time out , he's a famous chef who hosts an australian cooking show . 
not that it ever makes a difference in the plot . 
there are only two scenes of him cooking . 
for the rest of the film , somehow he mutates into jackie chan , supercop . 
it never does explain why his character has such superb martial arts skills . . . perhaps he was in the same cooking class as steven seagal in under siege ? 
a tv newswoman , diana ( gabrielle fitzpatrick ) , covertly tapes a drug deal involving kingpin giancarlo ( richard norton ) and a local gang of toughs , the demons . 
although she only has one camcorder , somehow the result is full of close-ups and multiple angles . . . hmmm , 
shades of broadcast news ? ? ? 
anyway , the goons discover diana , and will do anything to recover the tape . 
here lies another crucial flaw in the story : doesn't anyone realize you can copy a tape ? 
oh well , no one ever said jackie chan movies had to make sense . 
as luck would have it , diana runs across jackie , and , wouldn't you know it , jackie accidentally ends up with the tape . 
this leads to countless chase and/or fight scenes which look like they could have been lifted from rumble in the bronx or nearly any other jackie chan movie . 
in a move apparently designed to woo american ( and other english-speaking ) audiences , the film uses english as its primary language . 
however , that doesn't mean an end to the atrocious dubbing that has afflicted jackie's recent americanized releases . 
strangely , many of the characters speaking english are overdubbed with english , and poorly too . 
whether this is just a very bad case of looping , an effort to minimize accents , or a simple case of nostalgia , it does achieve the same level of distraction present in all of jackie's dubbed films . 
the plot in mr . nice guy is negligible , merely an excuse to have jackie on the run from various goons . 
but even though plots have always been second to the action in jackie's films , it seems odd that the filmmakers have stuck us with this tired retread . 
look , if you have jackie chan playing a chef , why not use that to your advantage ? 
watching jackie doing his stuff in a kitchen , beating the bad guys with foodstuffs sounds like the perfect setup for innumerable comic stunts . 
the action is a mixed bag here . 
there's really only one no holds barred fight scenes that have become the trademark of jackie's films . 
it takes place in the arbitrary location of a construction site , apparently for the sole reason that there are lots of nifty things lying around that can be useful ala jackie chan . 
the action in the film is neither jackie's best nor worst , but you long for some more inspiration in the scenes . 
the film's gratuitous use of slow motion is distracting . 
once or twice , it may be useful to highlight a spectacular stunt sequence . 
but to slo-mo jackie running ? 
either this is a nod to the six-million dollar man , or a pathetic attempt to disguise the fact that jackie may be slowing down . 
if you've seen all of jackie's films and are in need of another fix , go ahead and see mr . nice guy . 
however , if you're just in the mood for some good action , you'd be better off hitting the video store for some of his better work , such as supercop . 

warren beatty , diane keaton , goldie hawn and gary shandling star as a pair of married couples whose complacent lives are about to be shaken up in director peter chelsom's version of the classic romantic , screwball comedy in " town & country . " 
the drawing room farce of the 30's dealt with sexual innuendo and relied on wit and a great deal of commotion and noise to place the viewer in the thick of the duplicitous romantic action . 
back then , impossibly wealthy scions of society , with too much free time , would get themselves wrapped up in all sorts of sexual peccadilloes with spouses and lovers , only to have everything come out all right in the end - see " the philadelphia story " for a great farce . 
 " town & country " has the impossibly wealthy protagonists with too much free time - the kind of people that have jobs but never seem to work - and sexual misconduct on several levels . 
but , there is almost no life to original script by michael laughlin and buck henry and this is " t&c's " downfall . 
there is , obviously , a great deal of hollywood talent , in front of and behind the camera , involved in " town & country , " but , without a likable or , at least , interesting story to carry through their efforts , it is all for naught . 
and , that's what we get here - naught . 
porter stoddard ( beatty ) is a high-powered new york architect with a very good life indeed . 
his 25-year marriage to ellie ( diane keaton ) appears , on the surface , to be perfect . 
but , there are cracks just below this pristine surface . 
his wife is suspicious of his whereabouts , his kids don't need him and his best friends , griffin ( garry shandling ) and mona ( goldie hawn ) , are in the midst of a divorce . 
porter tries to get control of his life before it is too late , but like a man fighting against quicksand , his struggle just sinks him deeper . 
at the 90-minute mark of " town & country " i asked myself , " what's the point ? " 
i wasn't entertained , i laughed three times - over silly little pratfalls - and spent most of the film marking time 'til the end . 
warren beatty wanders around with his character in a bewildered fog , making problems for himself by thinking with a part of his anatomy other than his head . 
keaton's ellie is an empty headed flake who can't see the obvious as porter screws around on her . 
and , as you get to know them , who would want friends like griffin and mona ? 
the supporting cast is given nothing to do and , sometimes , does harm to the film , given the material they are forced to use . 
nastassja kinski plays a cellist with whom porter has a fling . 
the actress , who has , eerily , failed to age over the years , is miscast as the air-headed musician and the character doesn't belong , anyway . 
jenna elfman is a sweet , but smart , ditz who joins porter and griffin on one of their tacked on misadventures . 
andie macdowell is absolutely painful to watch as a wealthy heiress ( is there any other kind in this movie ? ) 
who comes on to porter . 
the saving grace is a pair of quirky perf's by charlton heston and marian seldes as macdowell's very strange parents . 
glib rationalization of infidelity , like , " if he doesn't speak english , it doesn't count , " are a staple for the screenplay . 
the morality of the film seems to be , if you can get away with it , go for it . 
the cast of characters are mostly people you wouldn't want to know , never mind befriend . 
the actors do their best , but are hamstrung by the weak material . 
helmer chelsom , who made the outstanding , offbeat comedy " funny bones , " is mired in the mess of a script and never puts his imprint on " town & country . " 
the production values are high , as one expects from a big budget hollywood film . 
but , the opulent sets by caroline hanania , lavish wardrobes by molly maginnis and top-notch photography by william fraker cannot save " town & country . " 
the film has had a long list of production and distribution problems and it might have been better , for me anyway , if hollywood just said no to this movie . 
i give it a d . 

 " well this is not mission : difficult , mr . hunt , it's mission : impossible . 
difficult should be a walk in the park for you . " 
---agent swanbeck ( sir anthony hopkins ) , the series' new agent phelps , takes ethan hunt ( tom cruise ) down a notch . 
a russian scientist ( rade serbedzija ) has created a new virus ( and its antidote ) called chimera that destroys its host within twenty hours of injection . 
a rogue imf agent , sean ambrose ( dougray scott ) , wants to use the disease and cure to blackmail a pharmaceutical company into selling him enough stock to make him owner of the company ( he knows it will soon be worth its weight in gold thanks to the outbreak of the virus he is going to cause ) . 
posing as ethan hunt , ambrose gains the confidence of the scientist long enough to get only the cure , not realizing that the scientist had injected himself with the virus to prevent exactly what ambrose was trying to do . 
the real ethan hunt is called in from his vacation to persuade beautiful thief nyah nordoff-hall ( thandie newton ) to assist the imf team in retrieving the stolen goods . 
ethan and nyah fall quickly in love , but ethan soon finds himself in a real dilemma when he learns that his new love has only been hired because she was a former lover of ambrose's . 
reluctantly , he sets up nyah to be rescued from prison by ambrose so she can infiltrate his compound and send back intelligence to the team . 
ethan must race against time to keep ambrose from obtaining and spreading the virus and prevent any harm from coming to nyah . 
although the first mission : impossible film was a moderate box office success , audiences panned it because they felt the plot was too confusing and there wasn't much action ( although being a fan of the series both old and new , i thought the movie was pretty decent and especially gutsy to make phelps a bad guy ) . 
that problem has been rectified in the sequel by making the plot more accessible ( courtesy of one of the writers of the previous entry , robert towne ) and by turning the film into one gigantic action set piece under the steady hand of action film guru john woo . 
the end result is one of the most entertaining ( yet simple ) action films made in a long while . 
unfortunately , the first forty minutes or so are relatively slow , dwelling mainly on ethan and nyah's quickly blossoming romance and seeming more in place in a james bond film than with the less glamorous mission : impossible tv series . 
ethan's conflict is a compelling one , but it seems very rushed ( and comes about because of a near fatal car wreck that ethan himself causes ! ) . 
john woo handles all of this with an artistic flair that seems out of place , featuring a great deal of slow fades and dramatically framed close-ups . 
the surreal nature of these sequences are distracting and ultimately a detriment to the film . 
thankfully though , at the point ambrose discovers nyah's deception , mission : impossible ii becomes very entertaining and action-packed . 
robert towne's screenplay takes some of the conventions set up in the first film and parodies them during a sequence where ethan must break into a high-rise building and retrieve the remaining specimens of the virus . 
after that , the action scenes just begin to build in intensity , as is the case with many of woo's previous high-octane films . 
the final half hour is an all out assault of action ( a good deal of which is ruined by the trailer , unfortunately ) . 
as far as summer entertainment goes , mission : impossible ii is serviceable fare . 
anyone looking for hardcore action won't be disappointed ( except for during the first half of the film , perhaps ) . 
even if you weren't a fan of the first film , this entry deserves some checking out . 
[pg-13] 

nosferatu the vampyre ( germany 1979 ) 
a film review by mike watson copyright 1999 mike watson 
this extraordinary re-telling of bram stoker's " dracula " by german filmmaker werner herzog deserves the most prominent of places in cinematic vampire lore . 
inspired by f . w . murnau's 1922 silent film of the same name , herzog's film is a work of exquisite bleakness , an oddly touching tragedy with a beautiful and uniquely haunting quality that lingers long afterwards . 
the original full-length english and german language versions of nosferatu have at last received a video release by u . s . distributor anchor bay entertainment , and in gorgeous widescreen prints . 
until now only a shortened english language version of the film was available on video , and only in europe . 
both of these re-releases restore the film to its full length , but viewers should still be wary of the english version due to its often stilted dialogue . 
apparently the english dialogue coach herzog had on the set during filming was incompetent , and some of the voices also seem to be dubbed . 
the german version with english subtitles remains the definitive one . 
everyone knows the story of dracula . 
or do they ? 
his story has been so bastardised on film over the years that a brief reminder of the basic plot certainly won't hurt . 
jonathan harker is a young lawyer sent to the gloomy castle dracula in transylvania to do business with a creepy count ( played by klaus kinski ) who wants to buy a house in harker's hometown . 
upon seeing a photo of harker's wife ( the radiant isabelle adjani ) he instantly falls in love with her . 
locking harker up in his castle , he sets off on a long journey to meet this woman whose beauty so bewitches him . 
upon divining his identity as a vampire , adjani seduces the count and lures him to his death one morning as the sun rises . 
that is a story familiar to millions , but herzog has elevated stoker's tale into the realm of - and i use this term a tad reluctantly - cinematic art . 
nosferatu is as much a meditation as it is a film , shot through blue-ish and white filters and peopled with characters who perform as if they were half hypnotised . 
the film's surreal , dream-like quality is utterly mesmerising . 
there is much to enjoy , but i'll limit my praise to a few key points . 
holding the film together is kinski's remarkable performance as count dracula . 
past screen portrayals , including bela lugosi's famous turn , have largely been one dimensional and tended towards camp . 
but kinski . . . oh boy , this is something far more compelling . 
aided by a startling make-up job , he portrays dracula's vampirism not simply as pure evil but as some sort of loathsome disease . 
this man is dreadfully lonely . 
he lives in utter solitude , shunned by the locals for his hideous appearance and reputation for bloodlust . 
kinski's portrayal of the count is both creepy and deeply affecting . 
when he dies , you almost feel as if this man's tortured soul has been freed at last . 
then there's the unforgettable soundtrack , largely composed by german group popul vuh . 
it is so eerily beautiful and evocative that it's quite impossible to imagine the film without it . 
popul vuh are longtime herzog collaborators and play an ancient-sounding kind of spacemusic using piano , chants , and exotic instruments . 
when i first saw this film some years ago i was so impressed i tracked down and bought a number of their albums . 
the one i still listen to the most is " tantric songs " , from which most of the music in nosferatu is taken . 
it's a testament to the music's depth that it is as powerful without the pictures as it is with them . 
the album is still available on the highly respected ambient and world music label celestial harmonies . 
this is a timely re-release by anchor bay . 
after francis ford coppola's unscary and woefully overblown version of bram stoker's tale in 1992 , it is a joy to go back to herzog's film and see the amazing things he has done with what is now a century-old story . 
to some aficionados , nosferatu is quite simply the greatest vampire film ever made . 
without a doubt , it is an unmistakable classic of the genre . 
don't miss it . 

the summer of 00' wasn't a very good one for devout cinephiles . 
it offered no blair witches or sixth senses ; the best big budget hollywood could do was an efficient x-men adaptation and a flawed but entertaining shaft update . 
nurse betty signals the unofficial end of that dreadful summer movie season and the commencement of a potentially brighter fall movie season , that battery-charging ( at least for critics who have to sit through every piece o' shit that moseys into multiplexes ) time of year when all those oscar contenders ( read : " quality " films ) compete for audiences . 
alas betty has the dubious distinction of being the first overpraised junk heap of the new season . 
it's also indie director neil labute's first attempt at something resembling a mainstream picture , and i'm sad to report it's a resounding failure ( at least on this web site ) , a mess that's as hopelessly saccharine as people have accused labute's previous films of being unrelentingly masochistic . 
i went in expecting something decent , for betty was gleefully praised , it's screenplay even winning an award at cannes , but i exited shaking my noggin in bewilderment . 
are critics so desperate for something unique that they're blind to how derivative the particular brand of " uniqueness " betty dolls out is ? 
for the first time labute is working from a script he has not written , and he seems unsure of how to handle the material . 
betty tries to be hip like pulp fiction ( this is another flick featuring a pair of strangely bright and articulate hit men ) , enchanting like the wizard of oz ( of which this film makes several allusions to ) and heartwarming like [stick in your favorite loveable misfit movie] , but by the end it left me cold with its calculated desperation . 
it's labute's half hearted attempt to make a crowd pleaser and he doesn't even seem to have half that heart in it . 
nurse betty concerns a soap opera addict , betty ( brilliantly played by renee zellweger ) , who witnesses the killing of her husband , del ( aaron eckhart playing the most casually loutish husband since richard benjamin in diary of a mad housewife ) by two hit men ( morgan freeman and chris rock ) . 
she happens to have her most beloved soap on in the background and somehow merges the two realities . 
she's blocked out her husband's death and thinks she's a character in her favorite soap , a reason to love . 
betty sets out on the road to la ( with some drugs unknowingly stashed in her car trunk ) searching for her soap boyfriend dr . david ravell ( greg kinnear ) while the two bickering hit men follow in not so close pursuit . 
the labute who birthed the extraordinary in the company of men , slipped a bit ( but not much ) with his sophomore effort , your friends and neighbors , then fell straight on his ass with bash , a play he penned that was recently aired on showtime . 
the play demonstrated no forward movement as an artist , only labute's persistence in wallowing in the horrid things " average " people do to each other , usually with out realizing how horrid they themselves are . 
in the play , paul rudd , as an obnoxious jock , delivers a monologue detailing how he once followed a gay man into a bathroom and beat him maybe to death , while his clueless girlfriend essentially regards his sadistic behaviors as something along the old maxim " boys will be boys " . 
another character , schlubby businessman reacts to the loss of his job by actually killing his own baby ! 
what was once so powerful about labute's work , the casual , nonchalant cruelty and selfishness ( often elements we all have in us amplified to a disgusting degree ) had become so over the top it was borderline comic . 
obviously , at this point , labute could use a dose of some different kind of material before he pigeon holes himself further , but nurse betty isn't it . 
he clearly has little passion for what he's doing here , instead replacing his mojo with strained quirks ( one of the hit men is a huge soap fan , and the character of betty would be little more than a one joke gimmick if zelllweger hadn't managed to transcend that ) tailor made to appeal to the widest possible audience . 
nearly every scene between chris rock and morgan freeman fatally slows the picture down , as the two are made to enact soft-boiled tarantino-esque dialogue . 
they evince little chemistry , with rock constantly in over the top rant mode , acting more like an angry comic than any thing resembling a hit man ( an occupation that's represented far too frequently in movies nowadays ) . 
i think rock is a great comic yet he hasn't been able to bring his feral intelligence to movies , whenever he acts , and no matter the part , it's like he's doing the damn chris rock show . 
surprisingly ( at least considering her work in me , myself and irene ) renee zellweger gives a revelatory performance , building on her baby faced , apple pie looks . 
that wide-open face and helium voiced earnestness suggests a little girl not fully grown into her thirty-year-old body . 
it's the best work she's ever done . 
freeman is effective as always , though his performance nonetheless suffers because it seems at odds with where the movie wants to take it . 
the actor plays the role in his usual calm , collected manner , though the flick tries to insinuate a symbolic kinship between his character and betty's , suggesting that both are controlled by their fantasies rather than reality . 
that's interesting but the movie doesn't do anything with it other than crash land the sub-theme into a labored speech in the midst of a badly staged gun battle . 
the film has good moments ( many of the scenes involving a very good greg kinnear , especially his confrontation with zellweger ) , an almost soothing , lyrical score ( and you know a movie's in trouble when the score sticks out as one of the best things about it ) but nothing jells , it's parts , good or bad , are so disparate as to be opposing . 
the film might have worked had it settled on being one type of film , a mainstream , female forrest gump or an oddball art film , but as both if it falls as flat as diet coke . 
betty's screenplay makes the mistake of relying too much on concurrence , without which betty wouldn't make any progress in the film . 
nurse betty is a film driven by coincidence rather than charter , like how betty becomes a nurse in the film , a job that she takes in order to get closer to her imaginary lover ; she happens to be at the hospital at the exact moment that a drive by shooting takes place and miraculously knows how to take care of the victim's wound because she happened to see how on tv , which leads to her being offered a room with the victim's girlfriend who eventually gets betty into a party where she meets kinnear ? ? ? a little too tidy , don'tcha think . 
betty has an interesting theme , though it doesn't even seem aware of this . 
the current state of tv has been leaning towards reality television what with the enormous success of survivor and moderate success of big brother , with more on the way . 
this is a film about a women so deluded as to think that her favorite soap opera is reality ( ironically real-life survivor sean kennif has taken a part as a doctor on the soap opera guiding light ) . 
instead of exploring this timely matter in a way relating to the current tv craze ( since the film does largely appear to be a satire of television , albeit one that would feel more appropriate in the '80s than the '00s ) , the film simply uses betty's delusions as a plot device to get her from point a to b . no progress is made and little is unearthed except that maybe labute could use a bit of rest and a lot of contemplation . 

notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica . 
the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers . 
if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards . 
starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan 
exotica is a film that grows on retrospection . 
exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film . 
all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account . 
the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction . 
exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique . 
at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features . 
the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films . 
similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots . 
on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at . 
but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life . 
exotica is very much worth seeing . 
it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) . 
in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release . 
apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie . 
the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen . 
but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica . 
analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead ) 
what is behind the complex plot in exotica ? 
first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means . 
the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . . 
then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . . 
in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen . 
exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner . 
exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) . 
in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows . 
second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters . 
the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter . 
the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter . 
the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter . 
a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie . 

it's been a long time since walt disney has delivered us a classic along the lines of the little mermaid or beauty and the beast . 
sure , there have been delightful outings like last years hercules . 
but nothing entirely groundbreaking . 
with the release of the studio's newest feature length film , a remake of edgar rice burrough's creation tarzan , disney has plunged into new waters with both maturity and animation techniques . 
it's no classic , but this new tarzan represents exactly what a family film should be . 
the plot is loyal to the original storyline , as tarzan's parents are forced to abandon their ship which has caught fire , and find shelter in the jungles of africa . 
but , they are killed ( offscreen ) by the snarling cheetah sabor , leaving baby tarzan alone and unharmed in his crib . 
found by kala ( voiced with effective gentleness by glenn close ) , a kindhearted mother and member of a gorilla pack , tarzan is taken into the primate group and raised as one of their own . 
we follow the young boy through the years , as he partakes in various adventures with his loud mouth gorilla friend terk ( a very brash but funny rosie o'donnell ) and clumsy elephant tantor ( wayne knight ) . 
of course , in any disney film we are given some kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for the hero . 
in tarzan , these characters fill that space rather inconspicuously . 
gags that were magnified in other family films are kept quite minor here . 
most of the characters are amusing without being forced . 
as tarzan grows to manhood , the suspected antagonist stumbles into the picture . 
here , the notorious bad guy is the big game hunter clayton ( brian blessed ) , who's accompanying a hapless professor ( nigel hawthorne ) on an expedition through the jungle . 
of course , there's the professor's daughter , jane ( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver ) who will help supply the romantic quotient of the movie . 
the thing that blew my socks off about this version of tarzan is the stunning animation . 
directors chris buck and kevin lima have applied a breathtaking 3-d element to the movement of the athletic title character , and the fast-paced editing is absolutely a marvel . 
as tarzan carries jane through the treetops , narrowly escaping a pack of nasty baboons , he slips and slides like a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding the big wave . 
your eyes can barely keep up ; it's a fantastic accomplishment . 
the subject matter here is also a notch or two above animation average . 
there are important questions raised about tarzan's place in the world , and all are handled exceptionally well by the screenwriters . 
there is no shred of doubt left to ponder afterward , which is a surprising plus that i wasn't expecting to find here . 
suffice to say , this film will have both adults and children thoroughly entertained . 
the grown-up tarzan is voiced by tony goldwyn , who made a name for himself as the `big mean jerk' from ghost . 
goldwyn is effective playing someone who's not aware of his world's dangers . 
glenn close is also memorable as his gorilla mother , and lance henriksen ( from tv's millennium ) is terrific as the silverback father unsure of how to accept the presence of a human child . 
as the movie's villain , there is nothing particularly special or catching about the character of clayton . 
it helps that brian blessed supplies his voice with game enthusiasm , but he is nothing compared to james woods' hilarious hades from hercules . 
a burley guy with a big gun who just wants to capture the gorillas does not quite constitute for an all-together noticeable screen presence . 
still , this is one great thrill-ride that disney has constructed . 
i never expected rice burrough's work to be transformed so successfully from live action to animation , nor with so much emotional depth . 
parents , along with all the kiddies , are going to find much to like in tarzan . 

capsule : bleak and point-blank -- just the way it should be . 
makes its case with cold-blooded precision and intelligence . 
 " serial killer chic " is a relatively new entry to the cultural vocabulary , and one of the more stomach-turning ones . 
i've never found someone automatically admirable or even interesting because they killed creatively or in great numbers , and because of that i had apprehensions about seeing henry . 
i wasn't sure i wanted to see the story of multiple murderer henry lee lucas portrayed as some kind of nihilistic hero/antihero . 
thankfully , that's not the way henry works . 
the director , john mcnaughton , took a small budget and a gallery of actor friends and created a chilling and intelligent piece of work . 
it doesn't provide cheap-jack explanations for henry's behavior : it shows him up for what he is , an unrepentant and un-idolizable man who killed when the mood struck him . 
at the film's opening , henry's friend ottis toole has a sister , who comes by to stay while she tries to find work in chicago . 
in a viciously riveting scene , he admits matter-of-factly to having murdered his own mother , and she covers his hand with hers . 
they are damned together from that moment on . 
henry and ottis eventually begin to kill for fun . 
the movie is especially good at showing how they seem to have drifted casually into it : there's a scene where the two go to buy a new tv . 
the pawnbroker they talk to goads henry with ugly words , and henry responds by stabbing the man to death with a soldering iron . 
no preface -- it smashes into us as suddenly as it does the broker . 
in a scene which many damned the movie for , unseen , they steal a video camera and film the murder of a whole household , playing it back over and over again for their own enjoyment . 
the movie itself , however , does not glorify the killings , but shows instead that henry feels no joy at his work , only irritation . 
henry succeeds thanks to excellent writing and direction as well as acting . 
michael rooker is credible as henry from the first frame , just standing there , and the rest of the cast works by being unaffected and casual as well . 
the producers had originally comissioned a slasher film from mcnaughton , but he decided to give them something more memorable , and consequently the film nearly didn't see release . 
the film does not glorify or justify -- it just shows us , with unflinching coldness , what henry was . 
i'm hard pressed to see how anyone can see this and consider henry any kind of " victim " or " hero " . 
then again , probably , so would henry . 

long time buddies and neil diamond tribute band members wayne ( steve zahn , " happy , texas " ) and j . d . ( jack black , " high fidelity " ) watch in horror as third mate darren silverman ( jason biggs , " american pie " ) disappears under the thumb of his new fiance judith , ( amanda peet , " the whole nine yards " ) a controlling psychiatrist . 
they're doubly troubled when the return of darren's 'one and only love' sandy perkins ( amanda detmer , " final destination " ) returns to their home town but doesn't cause a ripple in darren's devotion to judith . 
there's only one thing wayne and j . d . can think of doing - they kidnap judith and fake her death in " saving silverman . " 
written by hank nelken and greg depaul after seeing a friend engaged to the wrong woman , " saving silverman " is directed by 'hit comedy director' dennis dugan of such films as " big daddy , " " brain donors " and " problem child . " 
it's a dismal , third-rate farrelly brothers rip off that attempts to milk humor from such inspired bits of whimsy as having darren's love interest come from a family of circus freaks and be about to become a nun . 
gross out gags include a visualization of darren getting butt cheek implants . 
 " saving silverman " is almost saved by stars zahn and black . 
these two are so comically talented they can take bad material and still deliver the goods . 
they're in " animal house " mode while the rest of the film trawls along and comes up empty . 
jason biggs can attribute his entire career to the luck of having been cast in the smash hit " american pie . " 
peet shows some physical moves but no flair for comedy here while detmer slaps a brave , sweet smile onto her face and soldiers through . 
r . lee ermey ( " full metal jacket " ) is one note in an embarrassing performance as a psychopathic ex-football coach . 
neil diamond appears at the film's climax as himself and miraculously enlivens the proceedings by belting out some of his old standards . 

if snake eyes were a dog , you'd put it to sleep . 
if it was a couch , you'd put it out on the sidewalk , where it would sit for a week . 
if it were your child , you'd be reading military school catalogs . 
if it were a ship -- no , it wouldn't be the titanic , that would imply glamor and tragedy -- it would be the exxon valdez . 
 ( personal side note : i saw this movie on the road during a houston business trip . 
for whatever reason , my hotel's cable system wasn't showing the astros-braves game , which featured a randy johnson-greg maddux matchup . 
this forced me to pay full price for snake eyes instead of watching a perfectly good baseball game for free -- so the invective , deserved as it is , should be seen in that perspective . ) 
snake eyes is supposed to be a mystery movie , and good mystery movies are supposed to leave you asking yourself questions on the way out of theater . 
snake eyes is not a good mystery movie , but i had some questions : where's the manager , and how do i get a re-admit pass ? 
if i fall asleep on the drive home and wreck my rent-a-car , can i sue brian de palma ? 
is it too late for the academy to revoke nicolas cage's oscar ? 
will someone please ( i'm begging you ) give gary sinise a role worthy of his talents ? 
and how , exactly does cage end up wearing the exact same shirt and tie as sinise does ? 
the first and most glaringly wrong thing with snake eyes is the trailer . 
if you've seen the trailer without seeing the movie , consider yourself fortunate . 
the trailer is a work of sheer genius . 
it manages to convey everything worthy of the movie -- the noteworthy steadicam work , the exuberance of cage's performance as a thoroughly corrupt atlantic city policeman , the essential elements of the marginal plot . 
the expert craftsman who pieced together a fairly good trailer out of snippets of a wretched movie deserves praise and a percentage of the gross . 
 ( is a best trailer category at the oscars that far-fetched , after all ? ) 
but all it does is set us up for an overwhelmingly disappointing movie . 
the trailer sets up what should have been a promising plot : detective ricky santoro ( cage ) must solve the mystery of who shot the secretary of defense at an atlantic city pay-per-view boxing match . 
unfortunately , there are multiple problems afoot . 
the trailer gives away much , too much of the story . 
the shooter is killed instantly , so the story revolves around why the secretary was killed and who is involved in the conspiracy . 
the film's secret is ho-hum at best , and anyone who has watched the trailer and is aware of the law of economy of characters can figure out who the top conspirator is . 
without an interesting plot , without interesting dialogue , and without much of a reason to care about the characters or the story , snake eyes is a failure on almost every possible level . 
as much as i hated this movie , i must give brian de palma one tiny bit of credit . 
de palma is maddeningly inconsistent . 
he can , on his day , create amazingly well-done movies ( the untouchables , carlito's way ) . 
on off-days , he can be , well , just horrid ( the bonfire of the vanities , raising cain ) . 
snake eyes falls into the horrid category , but there are a couple of moments that are worth seeing strictly for their film-school degree-of-difficulty value . 
the steadicam opening scene does a good job of introducing the cage character and is a virtuoso technical job by both the director and the actor . 
there is a split-screen chase scene that looks pretty good , and it's followed by a god's eye view of a bank of hotel rooms that's imaginitively done . 
this is what's called giving the devil his due . 
but the technical skill doesn't even come close to making up for the sheer evil of this movie . 
placing plot holes to one side for a moment , snake eyes features easily the worst boxing match in cinema history ( george foreman is in better shape than the movie boxers ) , a hurricane that exists for no other reason than to punctuate significant plotlines with portentuous thunderclaps , and perhaps the worst , most overly drawn out ending in years . 
snake eyes is a criminal act , an evil waste of time and talent . 
cage , sinise , and yes , even de palma deserve better . 
the audience deserves better -- but no refund , no re-admit pass , no free popcorn coupon , can ever restore to us the time we've spent or wash the awful images from our mind . 
however , we are left with one consolation , that we were warned by the movie's title -- because snake eyes is nothing more than a roll of craps . 

14 years ago , national lampoon introduced us to a new family - the griswolds . 
in 1983 , the griswolds embarked on a cross-country journey with the destination of wally world , a world-renowned theme park in california . 
we laughed our heads off as we shared the wild and crazy mishaps the family endured . 
two years later , we watched again as they went to europe , and four years after that , we shared christmas with them . 
now , eight more years have passed , and the laughs have done more than die . 
they've been cremated . 
vegas vacation brings back chevy chase as clark griswold , the good intentioned but ill-fated father of two . 
the premise is basically the same . 
clark has a wonderful idea to take his family on a bonding vacation , this time to las vegas . 
his wife ellen ( beverly d'angelo ) and teenage kids rusty and audrey ( always played by different actors - this time around , by ethan embry and marisol nichols , respectively ) join him and they soon find themselves in sin city where casinos will make the backdrop for ninety minutes of slapstick . 
of course a " vacation " movie wouldn't be complete without good ole eddie ( reprised by randy quaid ) , the misfit cousin , showing up at all the wrong times . 
there isn't too much of a plot here when it comes right down to it . 
it's really just a skit movie . 
there are a couple of ways to define a skit movie , which is not a real term as far as i know . 
the first would be a movie that basically has one running gag for two hours , therefore coming off like a two hour skit . 
the second would be a movie that seems comprised of about twenty shorter skits , each lasting about five minutes . 
vegas vacation comes off like the first . 
a good example of the latter would be last year's black sheep . 
the problem with this format is that it becomes old fast , and it doesn't really fit into a movie mold . 
in these cases , a " plot " , which is generally very thin , is used either as a shameless filler between scenes or to simply add convenience to the gags ( i . e . 
have a good vegas joke , make a vegas movie ) . 
such is the case with this movie's mini-plots . 
clark gets gambling fever and begins spending all of the griswold's money , ellen is on the verge of an affair with wayne newton ( ! ) , rusty has a fake id and is using it to his gambling advantage , and audrey is desperate for fun and winds up joining her cousin vickie ( shae d'lyn ) as an exotic dancer . 
the simple fact is : this movie isn't funny . 
at first , i did find myself chuckling heartily at a couple of little jokes , but when the movie got rolling , my interest suddenly stopped . 
chase plays clark griswold really well . 
he made the character and he is the character . 
d'angelo , to be quite honest , never was too impressive as ellen , and this movie doesn't show any signs of redemption . 
as for the two new griswold kids , the word " blah " comes to mind . 
the " vacation " series seems out to prove that anybody can play these two characters , the simple reason being that there is nothing to them . 
they're so generic , you'll expect the credits to read " girl #1 as audrey griswold " . 
vegas vacation differs from the first three in the series by more than just laugh factor . 
yes , it's true that vegas vacation isn't even close to being close to being as funny as the others , which were actually pretty fun in their own doofy ways , but there are a couple of other things that set this one negatively apart . 
first off , why did they leave off the national lampoon's heading on the title ? 
i couldn't find any reasons why , but maybe the fact is even national lampoon didn't want to be associated with such a lame film . 
that's saying a lot , especially when you look at what else the company has proudly presented : loaded weapon 1 , pcu , etc . if they expected this to be another hit , you would assume they'd be proud to tack on the notorious header , but for reasons only we can guess at , like the movie sucking , they didn't . 
there is another difference here that makes an obvious impact . 
the first three films in the " vacation " series were written by john hughes , a talented writer who is behind several popular films of the 80's including mr . 
mom , sixteen candles , the breakfast club , weird science , pretty in pink , ferris bueller's day off , planes , trains , and automobiles , and uncle buck . 
wowzers ! 
what a r ? sum ? ! 
looking at the names , you'd think this guy wrote everything that now stands as a movie icon for the 1980's . 
well that's not all . 
this guy also brought us 90's hits including the home alone series , the remake of 101 dalmatians , dennis the menace , and the current flubber . 
vegas vacation , however , didn't have john hughes behind it , and the loss is very obvious . 
this time around , the script is in the hands of elisa bell , whose only credits thus far include four made-for-tv movies . 
vegas vacation plays very much like one , and it would actually work much better as a made-for-tv sequel . 
if this sounds like a wild idea , it's not . 
revenge of the nerds third and fourth installments were both television movies , and they seemed like it . 
vegas vacation would fit in well on the fox network as a 2 : 00 a . m . 
sunday morning movie , but as a silver screen major motion picture , it's quite out of place . 
stephen kessler's jejune direction doesn't help things either . 
he only makes the film even more tv-movie-ish . 
each consecutive " vacation " movie has suffered a drop in directing power . 
we started the series off with harold ramis , who also directed caddyshack and groundhog day as well as co-writing ghostbusters . 
not too bad . 
then we had national lampoon's european vacation being directed by amy heckerling , who would go on to direct the hits look who's talking and clueless , as well as having already directed the infamous fast times at ridgemont high . 
lastly we had national lampoon's christmas vacation , directed by jeremiah s . chechik , who went on to direct the charming benny & joon . 
kessler , so far , has one title under his belt , the short film birch street gym , which received an oscar nomination in 1992 . 
granted that this was his first attempt at a feature length film , we can allow for some amateurish quality , but instead we get a movie straight from the text book - boring , bland , and deeply unoriginal . 
if you loved the " vacation " movies , and i know * some * of us did , there still isn't anything here worth seeing . 
if you loved them , don't ruin your good impressions of the series by indulging in this tragic example of cinema ala carte . 
if you never did like the series , why the need to confirm why ? 

i never understood what the clich ? " hell on earth " truly meant until very recently . 
i've just never experienced anything in my life which was so terrifying , so horrible , so monstrously deplorable that it justified being termed as " hell on earth " . 
after all , i've never been to war , i've never been the victim of any violent crime , i've never really been broken hearted , and i've never been audited ; so i really had no frame of reference as to people meant when they said that something was " hell on earth " 
then i saw cruel intentions . 
in a perfect world , i would be in charge of all the movie studios . 
the very first thing i'd do in this perfect world , would be to take every hollywood producer who thinks that setting any story in contemporary america with a 20-something cast playing teenagers and featuring a soundtrack ripped directly from mtv , and throw them in jail . 
but it wouldn't just be your average jail , not even a maximum security installation . 
i'd have these producers ( and everyone else involved in the production of these films ) put in front of a war crimes tribunal and forced to beg for mercy for their crimes against humanity . 
now you're probably thinking to yourself : " is this really how bad cruel intentions is ? " 
the answer is no . 
it's actually much worse . 
watching the cast of this motion picture atrocity try to act their way through roger kumble's awfully written script is probably a lot like stabbing yourself in the arm with a chainsaw and then pouring salt on the open wound . 
and then pouring acid on the salt . 
i don't know if kumble was trying to evoke comedy or tragedy out of his opening scene where marci greenbaum ( tara reid ) whines about having nude photos of her posted on the internet , but the only emotion i felt was sheer boredom . 
from that opening scene , where boring actor ryan phillippe tries to seduce tv actress swoosie kurtz , to the conclusion which i don't remember because i had practically fallen asleep ; cruel intentions is truly " hell on earth , " right up there with war and tax audits . 

funny how your expectations can be defeated , and not in good ways . 
the ghost and the darkness promised ( at least , it seemed to me to promise ) a hemingwayesque showdown between men and nature . 
what it delivered was mystery science theater 3000-level material -- an inadvertently hilarious story that made me scream advice at the characters . 
 " get new jobs ! " 
was one line , if i remember correctly . 
at the end of the 19th century , col . patterson ( val kilmer , whose irish accent comes and goes like an african zephyr ) is an engineer who has been hired to build a british railway bridge across the tsavo river in uganda . 
he is having immensely stereotypical problems : the natives are restless , his boss is a jerk , and now two man-eating lions are stalking the work camp and killing people off . 
patterson tries to handle the situation himself , incompetently , and then turns to charles remington ( michael douglas ) , a hunter of world reknown ( or something like that ) . 
the movie stacks the deck so heavily in favor of the lions , they should have gotten top billing and co-starred with siegfried and roy . 
they are nigh-invulnerable , as one comic book put it , and this is of course just the excuse the movie needs to have one native after another stepping forth to solmenly recite lines about the power of nature . 
give me a break . 
the movie hasn't got the wherewithal to even begin to exploit such ideas ; it's just trying to find convenient ways to stall us . 
even the lion hunts themselves are idiotic . 
get this : remington's big plan is to build a large scaffold-like structure in the middle of the savannah , sit on it , and wait for the lion to show up . 
he does this , and then gets knocked off by a bird . 
by the end of the movie , the blood vessels in my palm were all broken open from me pounding my forehead with my hand . 
the acting is forgettable . 
douglas does a good job of portraying a relatively cracked fellow , but it's nothing he hasn't done before . 
kilmer looks like he wishes he were someone else , somewhere else , and the rest vanish into the cinematography . 
the camera , by the way , sometimes behaves so stupidly all by itself that most of the lion attacks are incoherent . 
what did i expect from this movie ? 
i dunno . 
some real excitement , i suppose . 
a sense that there were formidable forces on both sides of this equation . 
no such luck . 
i dug out my tattered copy of hemingway's " the short happy life of francis macomber " and read that to get the taste of this movie out of my mind . 

there may not be a critic alive who harbors as much affection for shlock monster movies as i do . 
i delighted in the sneaky-smart entertainment of ron underwood's big-underground-worm yarn tremors ; i even giggled at last year's critically-savaged big-underwater-snake yarn anaconda . 
something about these films causes me to lower my inhibitions and return to the saturday afternoons of my youth , spent in the company of ghidrah , the creature from the black lagoon and the blob . 
deep rising , a big-undersea-serpent yarn , doesn't quite pass the test . 
sure enough , all the modern monster movie ingredients are in place : a conspicuously multi-ethnic/multi-national collection of bait . . . excuse 
me , characters ; an isolated location , here a derelict cruise ship in the south china sea ; some comic relief ; a few cgi-enhanced gross-outs ; and at least one big explosion . 
there are too-cheesy-to-be-accidental elements , like a sleazy shipping magnate ( anthony heald ) who also appears to have a doctorate in marine biology , or a slinky international jewel thief ( famke janssen ) whose white cotton tank top hides a heart of gold . 
as it happens , deep rising is noteworthy primarily for the mechanical manner in which it spits out all those ingredients . 
a terrorist crew , led by squinty-eyed mercenary hanover ( wes studi ) and piloted by squinty-eyed boat captain finnegan ( treat williams ) , shows up to loot the cruise ship ; the sea monsters show up to eat the mercenary crew ; a few survivors make it to the closing credits . 
and up go the lights . 
it's hard to work up much enthusiasm for this sort of joyless film-making , especially when a monster moview should make you laugh every time it makes you scream . 
here , the laughs are provided almost entirely by kevin j . o'connor , generally amusing as the crew's fraidy-cat mechanic . 
writer/director stephen sommers seems most concerned with creating a tone of action-horror menace -- something over-populated with gore-drenched skeletons , something where the gunfire and special effects are taken a bit too seriously . 
deep rising is missing that one unmistakable cue that we're expected to have a ridiculous good time , not hide our eyes . 
case it point , comparing deep rising to its recent cousin anaconda . 
in deep rising , one of the creature's victims is regurgitated back into view , partially digested and still alive . 
he shrieks in horror at his freakish appearance and pain , in a moment a bit too disturbing to be laughable . 
in anaconda , we also see a regurgitated victim , partially digested and still alive . 
he looks at another character . . . and 
winks . 
make no mistake , deep rising has anaconda beat all to heck when it comes to technical proficiency and pacing . 
it's also gloomy , uninspired and not nearly enough fun . 
i don't ask much of my monster movies , but i do ask that they act like monster movies . 
you don't have to show me a fantastically impressive , massive beast with tentacles a-flailing . 
just show me the massive beast burping , and i'll figure you get the point . 

the sequel to the fugitive ( 1993 ) , u . s marshals is an average thriller using it's association with the fugitive just so it can make a few extra bucks . 
tommy lee jones returns to his role as chief deputy samuel gerard , the grizzly cop who was after harrison ford in the fugitive . 
this time , he's after fugitive mark sheridan ( snipes ) who the police think killed two fbi agents , but of course he's been set up , and when the police plane escort he ( and gerard ) are riding crashes , he makes a run for it , gerard not so hot on his tail . 
what follows is about 2 hours of action , brought to us by the director of executive decision ( 1995 ) , another film curiously involving a plane . 
when comparing this movie to the fugitive , the prequel is far superior . 
but even on it's own , u . s marshals is a pretty lousy movie . 
while the original was reasonably intelligent , and had a fugitive to root for , the audience feels strangely distanced from snipes fugitive , mainly because we know so little about him until way into the film's overlong running time . 
while the fugitive gave a little time to develop harrison fords character , u . s marshals is straight in there , pulling it's trump card ( the place crash ) almost immediately . 
to be honest , i couldn't care less if snipe's character got captured or not . 
snipes performance is average , and his character gets surprisingly little screen time ( considering he is the fugitive ) for reasons i'll explain later . 
tommy lee jones is as fine as ever , although his role is hardly a challenge . 
the sense of deja vu was overwhelming . 
i know it's the same role from the fugitive , but there is seemingly no attempt to develop his character from the last film . 
there's a few 'nudge nudge' references from the first film , but apart from that , nothing . 
nobody even mentions harrison ford in this movie . 
downey jnr is ok as fbi agent john royce who's roped into the chase , and sexy french actress irene jacob wanders in and out of the movie as snipes wife . 
nobody looks as if their having a good time , and all the performers are on autopilot . 
the supporting cast are o . k , but when it comes to performances , u . s marshals falls flat on it's face . 
it doesn't fare any better plot-wise , either . 
the film starts off with gerard trying to capture snipes , but then veers off into terrorists territory . 
as said above , the film is an normal , average terrorist thriller , seen a million times before , but is using the fugitive reputation to make it sound more professional . 
if this film wasn't the 'sequel' to the fugitive , this would probably go straight to video , or not even been made at all , because it's so average . 
and because of the film's plot changing it's course , snipes is almost forgotten apart , and hardly features in the movie . 
stuart baird , the director , is all right , but there's no particular scene that stands out . 
it's director is the usual action movie style . 
even the plane crash is sorely lacking in tension . 
the special effects are nice , especially the plane crash , and there's a good ( if very loud ) soundtrack by veteran composer jerry goldsmith . 
but in the end , u . s marshals suffers from an overwhelmingly lack of excitement . 
sure , it's loud and dumb , but in the end u . s marshals just ain't fun . 
bored performers and a lackluster plot and script , do not make a good action movie . 
overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 

if you have ever seen fox tv's special car chase programs , you'll have a good idea about the content of ronin , the new action " thriller " from director john frankenheimer . 
the film involves a mysterious briefcase , that several groups of terrorist want to get their hands on . 
an irish women , dierdre ( played by the truman show's natascha mcelhone ) , hires a group of mercenaries to assist her in getting the briefcase . 
among the people she hires are sam ( robert de niro ) , vincent ( jean reno ) , and gregor ( stellan skarsg ? rd from good will hunting ) . 
dierdre's groups assignment is too seize the briefcase while the current owners are transporting it . 
they accomplish this task , but a traitor is in the bunch and the briefcase is soon on the run again . 
the briefcase stays on the run , as the movie leads the viewer through several plot twists that are badly executed . 
the writer seemed to be attempting to make a smart action movie , but failed to understand that just because there are surprises , it doesn't add too the credibility of a senseless script . 
the plot twists get no reaction because they come at a time where no one cares what is going on , after the apparent climax of the film . 
but to add to the excitement , as i mentioned earlier , there are endless car chase scenes . 
they are unrealistic and fail to add anything to the story . 
don't get me wrong , i love car chases , but they were overdone and too long here . 
we never do find out what's in the briefcase , but i doubt anyone cares by the time they finish sitting through this two hour long attempted thriller . 

i feel sorry for the financial backers of " waterworld , " which is supposedly the most expensive film ever made ( at $172 million ! ) , and is also one of the stupidest - boy did they get ripped off ! 
in fact , this film is not really a movie , but more of an amusement park ride with a plot . 
it's not even just another case of cliches strung together ( well , it is that too ) , it's something that's painful to watch because it relishes in its flaws . 
kevin costner stars as a man who is some kind of mutant half man/half fish . 
he is an explorer/mariner on an alternate earth that is completely covered by water because the polar ice caps melted . 
he's referred to as the mariner , but they " the meaner " would have been a more appropriate title because he's cold , rigid , and strict - and he's supposed the be the good guy ! 
he docks at a small floating village of sorts . 
he trades dirt for money and this introduces us to the other important characters . 
first we meet one of the villains , then the soon-to-be heroine , a child prodigy , a wacky inventor , and a group of primitive people that somehow have some of the technology we have today , but also some of the low-tech tools used by pirates and vikings . 
immediately the film's biggest flaw is apparent : are these people primitive or highly advanced ? 
it doesn't seem like anyone can read yet they have ski-doos and airplanes ! 
how are these things powered ? 
and if they have airplanes , couldn't they just keep flying until they reached dry land ? 
also , if the planet is completely covered in water where did they get the materials to make these things ? 
i'm sorry , i'm all for checking your brain at the door when going to the movies , but elements like these cannot go unnoticed because they draw our attention away from the story and confuse us . 
there was potential here for a good pirate story set in medieval times before modern technology , so why mix the two together ? 
it doesn't make any sense . 
there really isn't much of a plot here because the story moves so quickly it never takes time to explain anything . 
the only thing we learn is that the prodigy child , enola ( mojorino ) , has a tattoo on her back that is supposedly a map to " dryland . " 
who put the tattoo there and how come it has taken them this long to figure this out ? 
we never get an answer , just a stupid action movie about whoever can get the girl will be the victor of sorts if they reach dryland . 
to make a long , boring , stupid , and just plain bad story short ; the mariner escapes with a woman named helen ( tripplehorn ) and enola . 
they sail for a long time , encountering some strange people in the process and fight off " the smokers " as lead by the idiot villain deacon ( hopper ) , who kidnaps enola . 
the story becomes a overly grand adventure with the mariner taking on an army of goons , rescuing enola , and bringing them all to salvation ( how original ) . 
even with all its special effects , action , and adventure this film is boring . 
not a single character is likable , therefore neither is the plot . 
dennis hopper completely rips off jack nicholson's joker , while costner just plain rips . 
still , " waterworld " is professionally made with a good production design and an original idea but no substance to it . 
i just hope they don't make a sequel ! 

i remember seeing the trailer of the black cauldron on the pinocchio video . 
it really scared me , and i didn't want to go see it . 
however , after i heard about how wonderful it was , i wanted to see it . 
i didn't get a chance to do so , until now . 
the film , disney's 25th animated feature , opens with a menacing shot of a great black cauldron unshrouded by mist as a narrator begins to tell the tale : a long time ago in the land of prydain , there was a king so evil , that his spirit was captured in the cauldron . 
it has been hidden for centuries , and whoever possesses it will have the power to conjure up an army of deathless warriors , and with them rule the world ? and destroy it . 
then , we meet a farmer-wizard , dallben , and his young apprentice , taran . 
taran dreams of being a warrior instead of being a `pig-keeper' ( they have a pig named hen-wen ) . 
one day , as he gives hen wen a nice warm bath , the pig goes crazy , and dallben then realizes , after watching hen wen's thoughts through a bucket of water , that taran must hide hen wen in the forest . 
an evil ruler known as the horned king is searching for the black cauldron , and only hen wen has the power to show its location . 
taran leads hen wen into the forest , but of course , he loses her , and tries to go find her . 
along the way , he meets up with a mischievous little creature named gurgi , who desires `munchings and crunchings' , much to his dismay ( besides , he stole an apple that taran was trying to use to bring back hen wen ) . 
when he hears hen wen's squeal from far away , though , he races to her rescue ? only to see her get kidnapped by dragonlike gwythants . 
taran chases after the gwythants and finds himself staring at the horned king's castle from far away . 
taran climbs the castle walls , and brings himself into the castle , where he attempts to rescue hen wen . 
he manages to do so , but he is himself captured and thrown into the dungeon . 
there , he meets princess eilonwy ( and her magic bauble , another thing which the horned king was hoping to use to find the cauldron ) , and the two escape through the deep castle walls . 
along the way , taran finds a sword in a burial chamber , and they rescue a comic bard named fflewdurr flamm , who has a harp whose strings break whenever he tells a lie . 
the three manage to escape the horned king's castle , but not before taran realizes that his sword is magic . 
as they rest in the forest , gurgi reappears , claiming to have found hen wen's trail . 
he leads taran , eilonwy and fflewdurr , by way of `pig tracks' , to a whirlpool . 
suddenly , they all get sucked under , and they meet the fairy-like fairfolk . 
taran is reunited with hen wen , and informed that the black cauldron is hidden in the land of morva . 
he then devises a crazy idea that if they can destroy the cauldron , it would prevent the horned king from destroying their world . 
with the help of a grumpy fairy named doli , the four travelers manage to find themselves at a mysterious cottage . 
it turns out to be no ordinary cottage ; three comically strange witches inhabit the place . 
when taran tells them that they are searching for the black cauldron , they agree to let him have it ? in exchange for his sword . 
taran agrees , much to eilonwy's horror , but at least they get the black cauldron . 
but ? the cauldron can't be destroyed , only its evil powers can be stopped . 
the only way to do so is for a living being to climb into it of his own free will ? never to return alive . 
things take a turn for the worse when the horned king's henchmen capture taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr , along with the black cauldron , and lead them back to the castle . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr watch in horror as the horned king unleashes the supernatural powers of the cauldron to ressurect his army of deathless warriors ( this is the most horrifying scene in the film , because here , a dead army comes alive ? ) . 
just when all seems lost , though , gurgi reappears , and rescues taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr . 
taran is about to jump into the black cauldron , but gurgi stops him , not wanting him to throw his life away . 
gurgi then jumps into the black cauldron , and the deathless warriors decay . 
taran tries to find a way to rescue gurgi , but he is forced to do battle against the horned king . 
he kicks the horned king away , who is then magically sucked into the black cauldron , where its powers immediately destroy him completely . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr manage to escape from the horned king's castle just as it self-destructs . 
the witches then reappear and attempt to take the now useless black cauldron away , but fflewdurr stops them , saying that they `never give anything away , they bargain' . 
in response to this , the witches offer taran his sword back , but taran instead has a new trade : the cauldron for gurgi . 
the trade is made ; gurgi's seemingly lifeless body reappears before the heartbroken group . 
as taran cradles him in his arms , though , gurgi stirs-he is not dead after all ! 
the happy group then returns home , where hen wen ( brought home by the fairfolk once the dangers are past ) , dallben , and even doli , await their triumphant return . 
as spectacular as it sounds , the black cauldron really suffered a lot in its past times . 
before ron miller was fired from his position as chairman of walt disney productions , he had bought a novel by lloyd alexander called the black cauldron , a sword and sorcery tale for the studio . 
bringing this book to the screen was the studio's fondest dream . 
miller , who entitled himself as the executive producer , promised that they would do so after they had proved themselves on other projects . 
when micheal eisner and his executives arrived at the disney animation studio , the animators were struggling to complete the black cauldron . 
by this time , things had gone really rocky for the animation department . 
many of the studio's old men had retired or died . 
therefore , the animators suffered a hard time making this film . 
originally budgeted at $25 million , the costs raised to $40 million because of constant changes on everything ? and when it was finally released on june 24 , 1985 , the black cauldron was greeted by praising reviews from some critics , but somehow the film flopped . 
the film was rated pg and the film , although `disneyfied' from lloyd alexander's chronicles of prydain ( which is what this film is based on ) , was much more scarier and darker than disney's other previous efforts , such as the rescuers and the fox and the hound , which is probably why so many people considered it too scary and stayed away from it . 
in addition , other critics rejected it for having `no heart' and `unmemorable' , compared to other disney animated features . 
but whatever the real reason , the black cauldron was a financial disaster , grossing only $21 million . 
the failure of the film grounded the studio's animation department , and exiled the animation team to annex buildings in nearby glendale , and it seemed like animated features would no longer become a part of the studio's reputation . 
the next two disney animated features , the great mouse detective and oliver and company , although a little more lighthearted than the black cauldron , didn't do much better ( although oliver and company grossed much more than the black cauldron and the great mouse detective ) . 
only with the little mermaid did the studio regain its reputation for successful animated features . 
as for the black cauldron , it was rereleased in some cities for a temporary time under the title taran and the magic cauldron . 
finally , the studio locked the film in the film vault and denied that it ever even was released . 
because of all this , you might ask yourself , was the black cauldron really such a bad movie ? 
the people who had seen the film didn't think so . 
in fact , many people had calls to buena vista home video requesting for the film , but of course , they denied it . 
for a while , it seemed like the black cauldron would never be released to video ? until september 1997 , disney released the black cauldron to video in the united kingdom . 
few people imported the video from england and converted to ntsc ( including me ) and for those who hadn't seen the film yet ( i am included here ) , they got quite a treat . 
but people who had bootleg copies of the black cauldron noticed that in the scene where the horned king raises his army of deathless warriors , about 12 seconds of ghoulish looking skeletons were slightly trimmed so that the film would get a u rating ( in the uk , the u rating means universal : suitable for all ages , kinda like their own version of g ) . 
somewhere online , a team of diehard the black cauldron fans signed a petition that said , `bring back the black cauldron ! ' , and because of that , disney finally decided to release the video to the united states . 
before that time , rumors online had been made that the video would be trimmed , like the uk video , so that it would get a g rating , and that they would add in songs . 
those rumors were put to rest when the walt disney company announced that the black cauldron * would * be released in its pg rated version . 
even still , when it was finally released to the us , some reaction was mixed . 
some felt that it was indeed cut , but some felt that it wasn't . 
but these where only minor criticisms which seemed laughable , since a film that was absent for thirteen years was finally available . 
as for myself , when i saw the movie for the first time ( on converted ntsc video ) , i didn't expect much at all . 
in fact , i had heard so many mediocre things about it , that i didn't think the film would ever be such a good film . 
much to my surprise , when i saw the first few minutes of the film , i was asking myself , " this is the same film everyone saw ? 
the one that flopped at the box office ? 
the one that critics and filmgoers alike called " a bad movie " ? 
this doesn't seem like all of the above . 
instead , it's a classic in its own right . 
the film has a wonderful cast of characters . 
there's taran ( grant bardsley ) , an assistant pig keeper who would rather be a warrior than a pig-keeper , the story's hero . 
the critics have said that taran is not likeable at all , but the opposite is true . 
he is brave , loyal , and eventually learns a lesson about friendship later on . 
there's a likeable character here ! 
not that he's the only likeable character in the film . 
there's gurgi ( john biner ) , a lovable little , uh , thing who remains loyal to taran , even though they don't quite hit it off at first . 
but another likeable character is the bad guy comic henchman , a dwarf named creeper ( phil fondacairo ) , who is loyal to the film's imaginative and sinister villain , the horned king ( voiced gruesomely by john hurt ) , yet he also fears his neck . 
the other characters , including the sidekicks , a spunky , but sweet princess named eilonwy and the comic bard fflewdurr flamm , and three comically wicked witches who hide a dark secret , although pleasant and likeable , aren't quite as well rounded as they should be . 
the story itself is an adventurous one , a quest involving the mystical pig , hen wen , the black cauldron itself , and an army of deathless ones with everything : a hooking opening to a spectacular finale . 
elmer bernstein's music also tells the story perfectly , in a dark , yet calming manner . 
the animation itself is surprisingly good considering that this film was created in the darkest time of the studios . 
even though there are some occasional effects that are not quite good , like the ground opening when the black cauldron rises out of the earth , the animation overall is top notch . 
overall ? this film is an entertaining endeavor . 
fans unfamiliar to the lloyd alexander chronicles of prydain will get a kick out of this one , except young kids . 
there are some extremely scary scenes which are more darker than disney's other films ( although some consider the stampede sequence from the lion king and frollo observing esmeralda in the fires of hell in the hunchback of notre dame are just as scary ) , which is the main reason why this film is rated pg . 
fans familiar to the lloyd alexander series will recognize the differences between the novel and the movie . 
even though it doesn't have all of the ingredients of a true disney film , this film is a classic in its own right , and deserves a far better chance than what it has been given . 
that better chance has finally come . 
whatever reason about why the black cauldron was such a big failure seems to have disappeared , and the film has finally achieved its place among disney's most proudest achievements . 
i can't help but think though , whatever would have happened if the black cauldron * was * a box office success ? 

 " an intimate , character-driven drama about a troubled youth at a crossroads in his life , " read the press notes for _reach_the_rock_ . 
i'm not really sure what film that statement is describing because those words bear little resemblance to the slow , completely uninvolving bore i saw--at least , it certainly does not describe what goes on for most of the film . 
alessandro nivola plays robin fleming , a troubled , directionless 21-year-old who has a penchant for breaking storefront windows in a small town . 
police sergeant phil quinn ( william sadler ) takes him in , and what ensues for the first 70 minutes is a tedious series of sneak-outs and sneak-ins where robin slips out of his jail cell , breaks a window , then returns , all without quinn ever noticing . 
also added to the pointless proceedings is some would-be humorous shenanigans involving quinn's dimwitted deputy ernie attempting to engage in clandestine patrol car sex with his girlfriend donna ( karen sillas ) . 
with a half hour ( if even that long ) remaining , director william ryan and writer john hughes ( yes , john hughes of '80s youth films and _home_alone_ ) finally approach something close to a point . 
turns out robin still pines for his high school sweetheart lise ( brooke langton ) , who has long gone on with her life , and hughes's main concern at long last reveals itself as a tired " live in the present and for the future " message . 
most moviegoers , however , will likely be asleep by that time . 
wide awake , however , is the cast , who individually tackle their showcase dramatic scenes with energy and skill--thus revealing the _real_ purpose behind this listless enterprise : to serve as a series of acting exercises . 
such a glorified workshop may have its rewards for the actors , but it leaves audiences with a booby prize . 
 ( opens october 16 ) 

will hunting ( matt damon ) is a natural genius . 
for a movie character , that's usually a death sentence . 
it's a trait associated with what my brother calls " too good for this world " movies , like phenomenon or powder . 
forgive me for spoiling the ending , but will doesn't die . 
this is no formula movie . 
in fact , it's quite fresh and original . 
it's a character study more than anything , and that's not surprising , considering it was written by two actors : damon and co-star ben affleck . 
will works whatever kind of job he can get . 
first he's a janitor , then he works construction . 
off-screen he speed reads books on any academic subject that interests him . 
on-screen he hangs out with his friends , picking fights in robust , romanticized-hemingway fashion . 
lambeau ( stellan skarsgard from breaking the waves ) , a math professor , learns that the janitor ( will ) is a genius with a special talent for advanced mathematics . 
having confirmed he's not a fluke or a savant , he does what he can to get will into the education system . 
he is firmly rejected . 
finally , will lands in jail for one of his fights . 
lambeau can get him probation instead of prison time as long as will agrees to therapy sessions and to discussing mathematics with him . 
will ( barely ) decides to go for the therapy over prison . 
lambeau treats will like a son . 
he's proud of , and amazed by , will's accomplishments in mathematics . 
he encourages will and tries to give him structure , knowing that , with a little discipline , he could be bigger than einstein . 
will isn't really interested in academia . 
he knows he would be the best in his field , and therefore spend all of his time in an office , explaining math to people like lambeau . 
he would rather work construction , which breaks lambeau's heart . 
meanwhile , will attends his mandated therapy sessions . 
it's not long before he shreds all the therapists on lambeau's " a " list . 
will has read enough psychology to know the tricks of the trade , and how to keep them from affecting him . 
shrink after shrink refuses to return after will's mockery . 
lambeau's last hope is his old college roommate , now a psychology teacher at a small-time community college . 
knowing that will is going to try to shred him too , sean ( robin williams ) agrees to take him on as a favor to lambeau and for the chance to meet this next einstein . 
true to form , will finds sean's emotional weakness and attacks . 
but unlike the other shrinks , sean knows what he is in for and continues the sessions . 
like a foster mother with a fussy child , sean knows that the attacks are defensive and is able to take them in stride . 
like the foster mother , sean knows that time and quiet patience is the only approach . 
robin williams is excellent in this role . 
he's not an actor with a great range , but in the right roles he has great depth . 
in this movie , as in awakenings , there comes a point when the quiet , shy man accomplishes something of great personal importance , and a smile of pure joy spreads up to his eyes . 
williams is the only actor i can name who can make an audience cry just by smiling . 
i have compared will to a foster child and that's not entirely fair . 
emotionally , he has a lot to learn , but he is not a child . 
he has thought about his life and made rational decisions about what he wants . 
sean , his girlfriend , his pals , and lambeau all help him grow , but he didn't start out asking for , or particularly needing , help . 
his exceptional gift singled him out , and those who love him kept pushing him in the right direction . 
if i had to say anything bad about good will hunting is that it walks the line between drama and melodrama . 
it's too sentimental and uplifiting for a straight drama , but the emotions are too subtle for melodrama . 
it is emotionally engaging , but it's not quite larger than life . 
this isn't a problem per se , but at times i didn't know quite how to take it . 
but this is a relatively small complaint about a very good movie . 
a good movie allows its characters to learn and grow . 
it doesn't just happen ; it takes a good script , good acting , and good direction . 
good will hunting has all three . 
if you are at all inclined to see it , by all means , go . 

poster boy for co-dependency needs patching 
patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman 
mediocrity is a pox on civilization . 
in our heavily consumer oriented society , there is an enormous demand to churn out " stuff . " 
what would happen to our economy if we didn't feel the need to have more things ? 
to make us buy more , businesses need to produce a ton of product . 
the sheer volume of items necessitates that most of them are of dubious quality . 
the film industry is like any other . 
in order for studios to survive , they have to make money . 
the prevailing attitude is that more films equal more profit . 
some movies obviously exist only to put wares on the screen and to do that , less talented people are used . 
there aren't enough great directors and actors to create the number of films necessary . 
for some reason , it's never crossed anyone's mind that the real equation is quality films = more profit . 
often , mediocre films are more of a pain for the audience than the horrendous ones . 
at you can have a good time making fun of bad movies . 
i'm not suggesting that " patch adams " was tossed out just to rake in the bucks . 
my guess is that someone was asleep at the wheel . 
it features an accomplished actor and a potentially engrossing story , but it's as dull as could be . 
hunter " patch " adams' ( robin williams ) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis . 
checking himself into a mental institute after a suicide attempt , he discovers that he can help the other patients by clowning around . 
patch could be a poster boy for co-dependency . 
he explains that he likes devoting himself to others because then he doesn't focus on his own problems . 
he decides that he wants to be a physician , leaves the place and a couple of years later enrolls in the medical college of virginia . 
as a med student , patch's antics at the school's hospital catch the attention of his soon to be arch-enemy , straight-laced dean walcott ( bob gunton ) . 
the dean is so opposed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked out of school although he's one of the top students . 
he writes in patch's academic file that he shows " excessive happiness . " 
i walked into the film knowing little about its history and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing . 
there also seemed to be no reason that it is set in the early seventies . 
then it struck me . 
it must be based on a true story . 
the movie is an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded the gesundheit institute , a free clinic . 
robin williams is an amazing actor . 
while he is adept at dramatic roles , his forte is over-the-top free spirits . 
that's what makes his failure here so remarkable . 
patch is exactly the character he should be best at , yet even the scene where he and another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat . 
something holds him back . 
most of the rest of the cast is two-dimensional . 
for a film that champions seeing patients as human beings , it's curious that the ones here are cardboard characters . 
peter coyote as a man dying of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person . 
unfortunately he's in the film for only about two minutes . 
the audience is blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene . 
we're not left to our own emotional decisions : we're hit over the head with them . 
shaved-headed children with cancer , an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh , a beautiful woman who can't love because of her abusive history . 
when a group of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy " hey , let's put on a play ! 
we can use the barn and my mom can make the curtains ! " 
mode , they laugh and roll around while painting each other . 
there might as well be giant signs flashing : " feel good now ! " 
 " feel bad now ! " 
 " patch " is a good title for the film . 
it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think of . 
the full-of-life student fights stodgy establishment types . 
there's a touching death . 
then there's another . 
the film doesn't trust us to get it the first time . 
the dean tries to kick patch out and later he tries again . 
worst of all is the final courtroom bit . 
scary-looking old men sit in judgment of a man who only wants to help people . 
the room is packed with patch's supporters . 
williams makes a supposedly impassioned speech about the humanity of all . 
it has as much emotion as his earlier statement " humans are the only animal that kills members of its own species " contains truth . 
most of the blame must be placed with the director tom shadyac and screenwriter steve oedekerk . 
shadyac also directed the first " ace ventura " movie . 
oedekerk directed the second one . 
need i say more ? 
the real adams is to be admired for his devotion to treating patients as people rather than diseases . 
the film has a number of worthy messages about the state of the modern medical business with hmos and managed care . 
the " doctors are not gods " theme will resonate with a number of people , but it's so poorly produced that no one will care . 

 " a man is not a man without eight taels of gold . " 
starring sammo hung , sylvia chang ; directed by mabel cheung ; written by cheung and alex law ; cinematography by bill wong 
eight taels of gold begins as a fish out of water story and at some point becomes a love story involving two people whose past choices prevent the fruition of their love . 
neither aspect of the movie is entirely successful , but both are good enough . 
and along the way there is one perfect scene , which is one more than you find in most films . 
slim ( played by portly sammo hung , better known as a star and director of hong kong action movies ) is a chinese immigrant who drives a yellow cab in new york . 
when the movie opens , we see him shouting obscenities at another taxi driver . 
he does not seem particularly out of place . 
in fact , he is about to return to visit his home in rural china for the first time in sixteen years , spending most of his life savings in the process , and it is there that he will become the proverbial fish out of water , as he realizes that you can never go home . 
he brings with him some statue of liberty cigarette lighters , cheap sunglasses , and lobsters ( which have to be large , to prove they're american ) --the tokens of his success . 
he also wears a gold chain and a gold watch , because without eight taels of gold , a man is not a man ( my dictionary tells me that taels are a unit of weight used in the far east , and i assume the phrase is a chinese proverb ) . 
he loses most of this stuff--except the gold--when his van crashes into a river and he has to hitch a ride , so to speak , on a raft along the river which runs past his parents' village . 
when he arrives unannounced , he almost induces cardiac arrest in his father . 
all of this has the makings of a routine comedy , and the movie has its amusing moments , as when the villagers take turns giving slim gifts during a celebration of his homecoming , and they all give him birds , so by evening's end he is surrounded by turkeys , ducks , geese and other sundry fowl . 
but eight taels is not a comedy--it is a sad , sweet story about the choices people make , and how they are sometimes irreparable . 
director mabel cheung ( an autumn's tale , the soong sisters ) sees clearly what it is like to have lived half of your life in one country and half in a country on the other side of the world--what it is like to no longer have a place to call home . 
slim does not belong in china , nor does he belong in america , where he can barely speak the language . 
seeing water buffalo in the fields and rafts poled down the river and fireworks exploding gloriously in the sky over a small village , we come to know the world slim left behind , and it seems as if he too is knowing it for the first time , and wishes it felt more like home . 
the condition of the expatriate is eloquently portrayed ; i , being one , was sympathetic . 
on his way to his parent's village , slim hooks up with jenny ( sylvia chang ) , whom he knew when she was a girl nicknamed odds-and-ends , which is what he continues to call her , although she is now a mature , professional , attractive woman , to be married in the spring to an american-chinese man . 
slim and odds-and-ends fall for each other . 
that's predictable . 
the manner in which their ( non- ) romance is played out is not . 
the emotions involved are adult and complex , and the film avoids cheap solutions to their dilemma . 
it's typical , for instance , that the fianc ? in this sort of plot be a colossal jerk , because it makes it easier to empathize with the unrequited lover . 
but here the fianc ? is a decent , ordinary guy , and although slim would like to feel anger , he cannot . 
the fianc ? has done nothing wrong ; the situation is the result of bad luck or bad decisions , take your pick . 
eight taels has its share of flaws ( the early sequences in america and on the plane to china are especially weak ) , but it compensates with insight . 
when odds-and-ends tells slim that her future husband wants to move to san francisco , she notes resignedly , " it's all the same . 
wherever we go , we'll be in chinatown , " and her straightforward statement expresses much . 
there is insight , too , in the understanding of the consequences of slim and odds-and-ends' decisions : he to move to america , she to marry a chinese-american . 
both their choices were perhaps born of impatience , perhaps of a sense that the grass is always greener--and it turns out that both choices were wrong . 
but they cannot undo them ; they must live with what they have done . 
such is life . 
the movie is tender toward these people , but it offers no false comforts . 
everything that is right and true about eight taels comes together in one great scene , which is the culmination of the love story . 
slim and odds-and-ends sit in a secluded spot and talk hesitantly , with the muted pop-pop of fireworks exploding in the night behind them , and it seems the conversation will lead to a kiss . 
the exchange that follows , and what slim then does , is poignant and perfect : with clarity and understatement , we see two people's lives , their heartbreaks and virtues , summed up in a single moment . 
yes , the film is flawed , but moments like that justify most of its inadequacies . 

various films seen at the seattle film festival : 
it's all true/three men on a raft ( u . s . a . , 1942/1986 ) director : orson welles 
a recently uncovered one-fourth of orson welle's planned " docu-drama " of amazing stories around the world named it's all true , this short dealt with welle's attempts to document the actions of several brazilian fisherman in 1942 who had become folk heroes for their fantastic voyage to rio on a raft . 
while several clips of the film are seen , the short tends to spend more time trying to recount welle's attempts to film it , despite studio problems , a staggering workload , and extremely ill fortune on the set . 
impressive photography , but really only interesting to film historians . 
sadie thompson ( u . s . a . , 1928 ) director : raoul walsh screenwriter : raoul walsh , from the john colton play " rain " , based on w . somerset maugham's story " miss thompson " cast : gloria swanson , raoul walsh , lionel barrymore silent 
after the discussion of the newly-restored version of frank capra's lost horizon , where several scenes had been restored using stills , i was interested to see sadie thompson , where the last 5 minutes of the film had been destroyed many years ago . 
this is the silent version of the somerset maugham short story " miss thompson " . 
this is one of the most skillful silent films i have ever seen--little awkwardness , and a very clever script . 
the actors : gloria swanson , raoul walsh ( who also directed and wrote the screenplay ) and especially lionel barrymore , as the hypocritical reformer who supposedly wants to save sadie's soul , but really wants to get her between the sheets , is the absolute epitome of sanctimonious scoundrel . 
swanson adds real life to the character , adding an worldly , affectionate air to the bawdy sadie . 
unfortunately , the ending is rather poorly tied up ; it is difficult to know whether this is due to the lack of live-action film , or the original script . 
the happy ending seems particularly poorly tied on ( i cannot believe maugham's short story ended with sadie and our hero moving to australia ) ; the stills are expected to fill in a conclusion we've been waiting an hour and a half for . 
still , it's entertaining right up to the end ; certainly barrymore's incredibly hammy performance ( which , nonetheless , works , perhaps due to the silent screen ) is a must for anyone who is fed up with the actions of the falwells , bakkers , and robertses of the religious worlds . 
a c movie ; worth 2 . 50 if you can find it . 
the pied piper ( czechoslovakia , 1986 ) director : jim barta screenwriter : kamil piza 
this is an animated film from czechoslovakia that is definitely not for kids . 
it tells the old folk tale of the pied piper with a twist ending i find highly appropriate , and with a lot of political comment along with it . 
perhaps economic content is a better word--it certainly doesn't show capitalism in a good light . 
nor human nature , nor anything else , for that matter . 
as you may have guessed , this is not a tgif film ; this is the kind of film you are glad is over . 
not that it wasn't interesting for technical reasons ; this is stop-animation that is very well done . 
all the puppets have been carefully carved out of walnuts--except for the animated stuffed rats . 
boy , sounds like a real comedy vehicle , doesn't it ? 
add onto that set design that makes the cabinet of doctor caligari absolutely cheerful in comparison , and you have something to give the wee ones ( and some of the mentally unstable larger folk ) to keep them up at night . 
some gore . 
don't bring children to this one . 
don't bring adults to this one , unless they're fascinated by puppetry and/or hate capitalism so badly they enjoy seeing wooden puppets raped . 
blech . 
 . no fun whatsoever . 
meier ( west germany , 1986 ) director/screenwriter : peter timm cast : rainier grenkowitz , nadja engelbrecht , alexander hauff , thomas besvater sub-titled 
this film takes us back and forth over the east german/west german border with meier , an east german wallpaperer whose father in the west dies and leaves him a good deal of money . 
his uncle ( also in the west ) sneaks meier out of the country , unknown to the east germans . 
meier , however , is less than thrilled-- his girlfriend , his friends and his job ( which he likes ) all exist in east germany . 
after a round-the-world trip ( his boss think's he's on leave in bulgaria ) , meier starts visiting east germany on day visas with a fake id , and uses his money and his connections to the west to buy his girlfriend presents and bring credit to his work crew's work--while everyone think's he's still living in east germany . 
of course , something goes wrong--and the ending is very funny , but it takes the film too long to get there . 
the humor is spread too thin , and much of the plot is too obvious ( as is the acting ) . 
still , a good concept for the comedy , and the last five minutes are pretty funny . 
c -- $2 . 50 . 
the right hand man ( australia , 1986 ) director : di drew screenplay : helen hodgman cast : rupert everett , hugo weaving , arthur dignam , jennifer claire , catherine mcclements 
after a lifetime of movie-going , and about four years of attending the seattle international film festival , i've learned several rules which , while not absolute , should certainly be given deference to : 
1 ) be wary of french comedies . 
these people like jerry lewis . 
2 ) ken russell is never going to grow up , no matter how long you wait . 
3 ) any film where siff associate director gary tucker refers to the lead as " old pouty-lips " is probably not worth watching . 
4 ) when an australian film only awards credit is best cinematography , watch out ! 
australia has good cinematographers up the whazoo , but since weir and miller left for foreign shores , finding a good script or director seems to be a difficult ( not impossible--witness malcolm last year ) task . 
well , i ignored rules 3 & 4 last night , and sat through a film that should be in the golden turkey awards . 
it's as if the director was trying to do one of those classic romance stories that were done in the 30's about tragedy among the gentry , and falling in love with people below your station , and horses . 
lots and lots of horses . 
the film opens with a stallion mounting a mare under the direction of her ladyship , which i guess is some kind of foreshadowing , because the missus of the house wants to have her son produce an heir . 
unfortunately , said son , a reckless idiot who faints at the very worst times , kills his father and loses an arm during a racing accident . 
highlights include the amputation sequence ; the doctor's daughter , who has the hots for the son , tasting his urine for a diagnosis ; their tender kissing with a window between them ( while it's raining--you'd think a woman studying medicine would know better ) . 
the photography is good , but i kept wishing for b&w--everything seems sepia-colored anyway . 
actually , i wished i was watching swimming to cambodia instead , but that's life . 
grade : z . avoid like the plague , unless you're looking for inadvertent yuks . 

the verdict : spine-chilling drama from horror maestro stephen king , featuring an outstanding , oscar-winning performance from kathy bates . 
geez , french and saunders had a field day when they set to work on parodying this ! 
sorry , non-british readers may not be familiar with french and saunders - my apologies . 
the pair are british comediennes ( jennifer saunders later went on to become edina monsoon in " absolutely fabulous " ) , who did a series of film spoofs a few years back , including alien , the exorcist and misery . 
needless to say , amidst her chucklesome impersonation of kathy bates ( the resemblance was quite uncanny ! ) , dawn french got pretty nasty with her sledgehammer when in reach of jennifer saunder's legs ! 
but despite the lingering memory of their sketch , and although i've now seen the film a couple of times now , that " hobbling " scene was no less disturbing ! 
i'm still left screaming at the telly in revulsion ! 
that may be the most memorable scene , but it's certainly not the only worth watching . 
stephen king , whose film and tv adaptations tend to vary in quality , strikes gold with this simple yet strikingly compelling tale . 
it's a nicely crafted psychological horror , which effortlessly succeeds in drawing you into the plight of writer phil sheldon ( james caan ) . 
rescued from a car accident by annie wilkes ( bates ) , who introduces herself as the writer's " number one fan " , he soon becomes her prisoner . 
both the script and kathy bates' beautifully masterful performance ( for which she won an oscar ) work arm-in-arm as we quickly begin to realise that beyond her bubbly exterior the woman is basically as nutty as a fruit-cake ( or is that fruity as a nut-cake ? ) . 
bates relishes her demanding role , and her performance is nothing short of a masterpiece . 
at times she seems like an innocent victim of her own obsessive behaviour , at times she's a rather tragic character , and more often than not she's just damned scary ! 
this is basically a very simple tale , but it achieves a large degree of eloquence in its simplicity . 
it's an involving , engrossing experience - and considering it's basically a two-hander , mainly set in one locale , it's a remarkable piece of cinema . 
there are no jazzy special effects or cheesy action sequences - this one relies solely upon rob reiner's stylish directing and the wonderful performances of bates and caan . 
oh , i haven't really mentioned caan yet - he does a good job as the writer who's a prisoner of his own success ( annie is obsessed with him and his books ) . 
but , as you no doubt gathered from the above - bates is well and truly the star of the show . 
along with the pig , of course ! 
anyway , the tension is built-up with masterful aplomb , and some scenes are almost agonisingly tense . 
there's the dinner scene where seldon goes to nerve-shattering lengths to poison her wine . 
he succeeds , but . . . she 
knocks the glass over ! 
i bet you threw a pillow at the screen as well ! 
in the immortal words of homer j . simpson - " d'oh ! ! " 
other nerve-wracking scenes include the bit where annie has gone off to town and sheldon starts snooping around the house . 
we cut to annie in her car - she's on her way home . . . he 
realises this and tries to get back to his room . . . cut 
to the car again , she's getting near . . . will he make it ? 
ok , so these sequences aren't exactly original , nor perhaps unpredictable - but they work ! 
boy , do they work ! 
if a film has you on the edge of your couch , biting your nails and shouting at the screen in suspense , then it's doing something right ! 
of course , the most nauseating sequence is the aforementioned " hobbling " ! 
annie realises her captive has been out of his room , and she's going to stop him once and for all . 
cue a block of wood placed strategically between his ankles and a huge sledgehammer , and . . . i feel ill just thinking about it ! 
nasty . 
it all builds up nicely to the final scene where sheldon finally gets the upper hand , and once and for all tries to kill the crazy psycho ! 
and then we're given one of the most ridiculously over-the-top fight scenes i've ever seen . 
she gets hit over the head with a typewriter , set on fire , head smashed against the wall - and she just won't die ! 
sheldon isn't in terribly good shape either . 
if it weren't so gorey it would almost be laughable . 
but it's a terrifically effective film , and therefore the daft climax is easily overlooked . 
misery is a tight , tense , intense and chillingly entertaining thriller . 
the directing is first-rate , and the performances - bates in particular - contribute to making this a suitably nightmarish little gem . 
wonderful stuff . 
 ? - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - for more regularly-updated film and tv reviews , check out my site ! 
http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/bungalow/4960 
- * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - 

 ( note : there are spoilers regarding the film's climax ; the election , of course ) 
we see matthew broderick , a man torn to a primal state ; he's been unfaithful to his wife , lied to and manipulated his students , and by the same token they've demeaned his masculinity , his self-respect , his desperate attempt at changing the world . 
and yet , he equates the cause of his pain , his torment , with tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) . 
no matter how many students have come and gone , and disappointed him as an educator , she's the real threat . 
about to give in , and divulge that she's won by only a lone vote , broderick's mccalister turns in defeat , sees tracy's euphoric celebration in the outside corridor and says , 'no' . 
the fact that he simultaneously lusts after her ideologically further illustrates that freudian foundation of entitlement which all men , no matter how obscure , have in their relationships ; a traditional expectation of success , to usurp and surpass women as a proverbial industry . 
she can't go higher than him . 
he won't allow it . 
and what's amazing about " election " is that every word of that criticism is drawn from a rather opaque metaphor . 
early in the film we learn that tracy was romantically , and then sexually , involved with a now departed teacher . 
it's like payne and taylor , his co-screenwriter , have taken tracy , a girl desperate for friendship , loyalty , and almost perversely drawn the mythological pattern of kids who were so utterly rejected by their peers , that they found sitting at the teachers' lunch table more fitting , to an unlikely extreme with her as the protagonist . 
and it's amazing the compassion that we have ; it seems so real to us , and not merely because it's happened before , splashed all over the front pages , but , because of the all around " nice " persona of these people , we easily dismiss the truly wayward deeds of the characters . 
it's with mandy barnett's " if you'll be the teacher " playing winsomely over the closing credits that payne skewers the tenets of his detractors most ; a final , viscous injection of bittersweet irony . 
sexuality , though , is not the only basis for payne's satire , or its success . 
it also makes a telling point about politics , friendship , and class boundaries . 
satire is required ( or ought to be , anyway ) to take itself seriously , or act so , while the audience does not . 
it's a fine line to straddle , but some films ignore it altogether ( " drop dead gorgeous " leaps infuriatingly to mind ) . 
payne and taylor hit the right chord ; their characters are real people : neither is perfect , but rather both of the leads are flawed , misguided individuals who retain , somewhat , noble intentions at heart . 
we sympathize with them , but still , as a satire , their idiosyncratic behavior , and their wrongdoing , is taken to an extreme for the audience to knowingly chuckle , but also reflect and meditate , about . 
minus half a point , though , for payne admitting not to having seen " ferris bueller's day off " . 
whatever . 

robin williams is a comedic genus . 
that is , he is one when he's in a film that allows him space to move . 
 " flubber " straps him in a straitjacket , covers him with duct tape , stuffs him in a coat closet and piles furniture against the door to make sure that he doesn't get out . 
in a re-make of its own 1961 " absent minded professor " , disney offers us proof that more is definitely less . 
recycling old films ( " that darned cat " , " 101 dalmatians " ) dressed up as new is the newest money machine from the home of the mouse that roared . 
professor phillip brainard ( williams ) is a terminally forgetful scientist teaching at a small college . 
his fiancee , sara jean reynolds ( marcia gay harden ) , president of the college is none too happy with him because he's left her waiting at the altar due to his lack of short-term -- and long-term -- memory . 
she's giving him one more chance . 
he blows that chance when he invents " flubber " ( flying rubber ) and is so excited by his discovery that sara jean is once again awaiting him in her white dress . 
his tardiness is helped along by his jealous flying robotic assistant who wants him all to herself . 
it's not all bad news . 
flubber is a green jello that can magnify and reflect energy that is applied to it . 
brainard realizes the commercial potential within the goo can save the school from bankruptcy and being taken over by the town's evil industrialist charles hoenicker ( raymond barry ) . 
while he's busy with his new breakthrough , the slighted sweetheart is being wooed by his sleazy rival wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald ) . 
there's a flying car , flubber-enhanced basketball game and an assortment of broken lab equipment : none of which are the least bit interesting or funny . 
at one point , my son looked around the audience and asked " why are these people laughing ? " 
although williams turns in one of his least inspired roles , he is easily the most lively of the actors . 
everyone else comes across as half-asleep . 
the re-make is successful in that respect . 
it feels like a bad disney movie from the sixties . 
i remember the original as being charming , but my guess is that the memory from almost four decades ago has been artificially enhanced by the years . 
there have been some updates . 
fred macmurray's flying model t has been replaced by a t-bird . 
his faithful dog charlie is now " weebo " , the hovering robot . 
the biggest change is that , with sophisticated computer animation , we now can have films show off special effects without being at all entertaining . 
flubber is anthropomorphized into a being supposedly with personality . 
the gloop has little arms and legs and splits into tiny little gloopettes for a big dance number . 
this has nothing to do with the story . 
the only possible reason is to create merchandising opportunities so that kids can badger their parents into taking them to mcdonalds for the toys . 
not that contributing little to the plot is a big problem . 
there are very few aspects of the film that move the story and those that do don't make sense . 
the discovery of flubber is going to save the college because brainard can sell his flying car to ford . 
anyone with half a brain would be able to see that his intelligent flying automaton is worth billions . 
it's unbelievable that his lover ( well , probably not a lover -- after all this is disney ) starts dating croft after the aborted wedding . 
there's not one appealing component of this man . 
after the professor discovers that smearing a golf ball with the gunk causes it to bounce uncontrollably around his lab wreaking havoc , i cringed as he picked up a bowling ball . 
this guy is beyond forgetful , venturing into the certifiable . 
co-writer john hughes used to direct light-weight but thoughtful teen films . 
the care behind " pretty in pink " and " the breakfast club " all went out the window after his " home alone " franchise heated up the box offices . 
looking much like " home alone 3 1/2 " , " flubber " even features a couple of vapid goons who get banged around and a cute little boy who screams a lot . 
in some ways , it's difficult to judge this film . 
i have a suspicion that i'm not it's target audience . 
after all , i measure my age in two digits . 

review : ghost dog : the way of the samurai ( 1999 ) 
cast : forest whitaker , henry silva , cliff gorman , john tormey , gene riffini , victor argo , tricia vessey , isaach de bankole' , camille winbush director : jim jarmusch writer : jim jarmusch 
rating : good shot ( stars ) 
languid , yet pointed and focused , ghost dog : the way of the samurai sublimely savages our cultural fascination with the mafia and the sleek , ultra-cool , cinematic image of the hitman . 
juxtaposing the samurai's honor code of feudal japan against the tradition bound modus operandi of the american/italian mafia , it ceaselessly chips away with a sculptor's precision at the archaic foundations of both as they lumber , dinosaur-like , to function in the modern era . 
director jarmusch gleefully plays the iconoclast , ripping into mafioso precepts with splashes of acidic wit . 
using a palate of bleached colors , jarmusch lugubriously maintains a tone of desolation that belies the many sparks of laugh out loud humor punctuating the film . 
he doesn't cater to audience expectations of hyper-colorized , stylized violence and gunplay where no one dies . 
the action is presented in flat , brutal codas . 
bullets have permanence . 
death has consequences . 
the movie rises beyond standard conventions to become a meditation on the concepts of honor and loyalty . 
it is an anti-movie , of sorts . 
there are few photogenic , empathetic characters for the audience to fall in love with . 
this isn't a film that lovingly holds your hand . 
there are dark , contemplative moments and the film firmly holds you by the shoulder , just so , asserting itself for all to see . 
the fulcrum for the movie's thematic balancing act is ghost dog , a mafia hitman . 
a twist on the stereotypical image of the mob enforcer , ghost dog is a hilarious contradiction in terms . 
unlike the sleek , muscular killing machines one is accustomed to , we are given an inner city black man who is overweight and slovenly , replete with chapped , dirty hands and rumpled clothing . 
he wears a hooded sweatshirt , which he often pulls over his head , giving him a monk-like appearance . 
there are no acrobatic back flips and shiny super guns in his arsenal . 
he uses old , worn weapons and simply goes about his tasks in economical , efficient and pleasureless fashion . 
ghost dog is a disciple of the old ways of the samurai , distilling the essence of his life through the filter of a book , which he reads daily , hagakure : the way of the samurai . 
life consists of simple pleasures for him : ice cream , warm rooftop naps and good books . 
ghost dog lives , as it were , by the basic tenet expressed by his book ; one should start each day considering oneself as dead . 
living atop an abandoned building , surrounded by his flock of pet carrier pigeons , ghost dog exists in a netherworld lacking creature comforts and friends . 
he craves nothing more . 
as he puts it late in the film , " i've seen all i want to see . " 
he exists in a spiritual world of the mind , gaining moral sustenance from his readings . 
ghost dog wasn't always as he is presented . 
in several roshomon-like flashbacks , it's shown how ghost dog was assaulted by racist white males and beaten nearly to death until the timely intervention of a good samaritan , that " samaritan " being a foot soldier in an aging crime family . 
ghost dog pledges his life to the service of the man , louie ( tormey ) , as repayment . 
after years of loyal service , ghost dog is sent , by louie , to kill " handsome frank " , a made man within louie's organization who has run away with the crime boss's daughter , louise ( vessey ) . 
ghost dog wordlessly executes his task , witnessed by louise , whom he spares , as she sits watching a betty boop cartoon , clutching a copy of the book , roshomon . 
in a bit of synchronicity , louise loans the book to ghost dog . 
upset that frank was taken out by someone not from the family , the mob bosses , in turn , put out a hit on ghost dog in a perverse twist of loyalty to their assassinated comrade . 
the rest of movie holds the dated value systems of both the mafia and ghost dog up to the light of a new millennium with many acerbic asides as the two come factions come into conflict . 
the theme of old cartoons flares up time and again , each time showing cartoon violence that is in sharp counterpoint to the reality of ghost dog's world . 
each time a character is shown watching a cartoon , it's from the same era , betty boop , felix the cat , etc . , a reflection of days gone by . 
near the end , louise is watching a cartoon that's a departure from the previously shown ones . 
it's a bit of audacity on jarmusch's part that is nicely effective , despite it's surrealistic nature . 
as ghost dog floats through his world , his life is touched by two people . 
one is a sage little girl ( winbush ) who connects with ghost dog through their love of reading . 
she comes to symbolize a melding of the old ways and new sensibilities , just as louise ultimately does . 
by film's end , the fact that jamusch is so effective at illustrating the tenuous bond between the two is a testament to his skill as a writer . 
the other person in ghost dog's world is an ice cream ( de bankole' ) vendor who only speaks french , yet intuitively shares a rapport with ghost dog . 
the vendor is the literal stranger in a strange land . 
jarmusch , through rapper/composer rza , underscores his film with rap and reggae music , which at first blush seems dichotomous , but its primal rhythms serve to strengthen the fundamental nature of the movie . 
ghost dog seems to draw some type of strength from the rap music he listens to as he negotiates the streets in various stolen cars . 
 ( which , in and of itself , presents another paradox about ghost's dog's sense of honor . ) 
the head mafioso is played by henry silva with a stone faced resignation . 
of all the cartoonish mobsters , he is the only one who appears self aware of his state in the world . 
gorman plays sonny , a lieutenant who respects the old ways , yet has a quirky affinity for rap music , a love comically shown in several impromptu displays . 
ruffini seems the truest reflection of the mafia . 
he is a husk of a man , assisted by two hearing aids , who barks out advice without truly hearing what he , or others are saying . 
whitaker carries the film by using what truly great actor's use , his face . 
ghost dog is reticent to speak , often going for long periods without doing so . 
the fact that whitaker can convey such a wide range of emotion through a gesture or look is a remarkable talent . 
although the film has a deliberate pace , some of the late night drives and walks taken by ghost dog dragged the momentum down . 
truly tragic is how ghost dog misinterprets japanese honor in his final confrontation with the mob . 
he reveals himself to be so desperate for spiritual guidance through the hagakure that he fails to truly adapt it to what is real and true in his world . 
carried on the shoulders of a remarkable performance by whitaker , ghost dog rises beyond being a characterization or icon , into a figure that garners sympathy , if not a bit of pity . 

susan granger's review of " session 9 " ( usa films ) 
sometimes you just get more than your bargained for . . . like when boston-based hazmat elimination , run by scottish actor peter mullan and his trusty assistant , david caruso , assures a town engineer ( paul guilifoyle ) that they can remove insidious asbestos fibers from a victorian hospital facility in a week . 
erected in 1871 , deserted and decomposing since 1985 , the danvers mental hospital , is one of the most malevolent " locations " ever chosen for a film . 
the structure is so massive - with its labyrinth of rubble-strewn corridors , collapsing floors , stagnant pools of water , isolation cells , and ominous surgical chambers where experimental pre-frontal lobotomies were performed - that their task seems impossible within that time frame . 
and each member of their inexperienced crew ( stephan gevedon , brandon sexton iii , and josh lucas ) is coping with his own personal demons as , one by one , their minds seem to be affected by the grim areas in which they're working . 
the film's title is derived from salvaged reel-to-reel audio-recorded sessions involving the demonic possession of a young woman who is suffering from multiple personalities . 
by the time session 9 occurs so do dreadful disasters . 
filmmaker brad anderson obviously envisioned this as a gruesome chainsaw-massacre-type ghost story but the script lacks structure and isn't particularly scary . 
the conclusion is more ludicrous than convincing . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " session 9 " is a dark , gloomy 4 . silly me . . . at 
first , i thought that the original name of the danvers lunatic asylum bore some reference to mrs . danvers , the creepy housekeeper played by judith anderson in alfred hitchcock's truly terrifying " rebecca " that also involved a cavernous mansion called manderley . 

ingredients : down-on-his-luck evangelist , church 
synopsis : sonny dewey ( robert duvall ) is a tireless texas pentecostal preacher who unexpectedly catches his wife ( farrah fawcett ) in bed with another guy . 
in a regrettable crime of passion he takes a baseball bat to the guy's head , and suddenly finds himself a fugitive for murder , and estranged from his wife and two kids . 
to atone for his sins , sonny flees to a rural bayou town in louisiana and baptizes himself as a new creature - - the apostle e . f . as the apostle e . f . sonny's main mission is to revive an abandoned church community and preach the gospel at the local radio station . 
soon he sets about resurrecting the one way road to heaven holiness temple . 
but sonny knows his time is short ; one day the police will find him . 
opinion : this movie is a thought-provoking look at an evangelist in real life terms . 
i believe that robert duvall ( who is the producer , director , writer , and main star of the apostle ) deserves an oscar for his performance as sonny the religious crusader - - a performance which is so complex and realistic it ranks as one of the finest acting performances on film . 
duvall's portrayal of a true believer is authentic , superb , and inspired ; it offers the audience a completely honest look at southern religion , as well as a portrait of a fallible , complicated man driven by his beliefs . 
incidentally , in real life duvall was just as 'driven' in getting the project underway . 
since no major hollywood studio wanted to risk financing a complex movie about an evangelist , the apostle as a project lay dormant for almost 13 years before duvall was able to get it done , paying for its production with his own money ( about five million dollars ) . 
in terms of hard-hitting realism and character portrayal the apostle would rank as one of the best movies of this decade , and i emphatically recommend the apostle for connoisseurs of stage and fine acting on film . 
similarly , those with a steep background in pentecostal christianity would find the apostle a thought-provoking experience . 
on the other hand , the apostle's main strength - - duvall's preaching - - is also what limits the apostle's target audience . 
in terms of plot and pure entertainment value , the apostle is definitely not for everyone . 
teenagers , action fans , comedy fans , and people who find church completely boring should stay far away from this movie , since three quarters of the film is watching sonny preach at church . 
in other words , the apostle is a four star performance , but with a very limited audience . 

mulholland drive did very well at the cannes film festival . 
as you can see from the rating it did not do very well from me at the toronto international film festival . 
it may not be clear to the viewer why i am so negative on this film for most of the running time . 
in fact it is an interesting mystery story told on the backdrop of the hollywood film industry . 
toward the end of the film i think everything that has been built falls apart . 
the film was to be a pilot for a tv series but writer and director david lynch did not sell his tv pilot and i think he decided that he wanted to do something else with it . 
something else is what he did . 
the film opens with a woman ( played by laura harring ) about to be killed in a car when a car crash saves her life . 
she crawls away from the accident with a concussion and finds herself a bungalow with an unlocked door to sleep . 
meanwhile young vivacious betty ( naomi watts ) arrives in hollywood from canada . 
she wants to build a career as an actress . 
betty is a little surprised to find a woman sleeping in the borrowed bungalow . 
she does not know who the woman is . 
she is even more surprised when the woman awakes and does not herself know who she is . 
they fix on a name rita for her , but are not sure if this right or not . 
meanwhile local director adam kesher ( justin theroux ) has problems of his own . 
he is trying to cast one actress for his new film and is getting pressure from the producers and from crime figures to cast someone else , cammie rhodes ( melissa george ) . 
these two threads are joined by a third one in which there is a strange and comic murder that goes terribly wrong . 
there is also a strange character called the cowboy ( monty montgomery ) adding to the confusion . 
in what was probably intended for the television pilot the film opens with a great vibrancy showing dancing 60s style under the credits . 
a lot of mulholland drive starts out fun . 
lynch wants you to know he could make an enjoyable stylish film . 
he just chooses not to . 
as with any david lynch film there is strange material added for little reason . 
there are no earthworms , but there are some decidedly strange david lynch touches . 
the film is a little long for the subject matter . 
toward the end it gets into some heavier violence and sex scenes , clearly not intended for the tv pilot . 
unfortunately some of the most important comments to make about this film would be spoilers . 
i will not mention them in the main body of the review but i give mulholland drive a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
mulholland drive spoiler warning . 
i have rated this film fairly low . 
you should read this only after seeing the film or deciding that you will not see the film . 
david lynch is in large part a dark satirist . 
most of his work is done in familiar genres but in some way shows their underside . 
in mulholland drive i think he is having a laugh at the expense of the crime film genre . 
what he does with this film is ( are you sure you want to read this ? ) 
playing off the audience expectations that there will be a simple explanation for what is going on . 
the first 80% of the film he tells a simple multi-thread crime story with clues sprinkled throughout . 
then suddenly at the end he turns the story on its ear with a large number of clues that appear that they should add up to something . 
the audience expectation is that they will add up . 
but he has given clues that are self-contradictory . 
lynch wants the audience to argue about what they have seen afterward and come up with theories . 
in fact , the pointers are noticeably contradictory and until i hear a better explanation , i think lynch is merely playing a joke . 
there is a visual curiosity that was popular in the sixties . 
mad magazine called it a poiuyt . 
other sources called it a tri- pronged u-bar . 
look at small portions of it and makes sense . 
look at the whole figure and it does not . 
this film is , in my estimation , the cinematic equivalent of a tri-pronged u-bar . 

produced by robert lantos & stephen j . roth 
directed by douglas williams 
mpaa : not rated ( though from language , violence , medical-gross-outs , and sexual content , i'd put it at pg ) 
though made in canada , " overdrawn at the memory bank " traces its roots to the bbc school of film production . 
using , for the most part , cheap computer and video special effects , chyron text , wildlife documentary footage , and sets that are sometimes obviously faked up , it nonetheless manages to tell a good enough science fiction story that by the time you're twenty minutes into it , you should be hooked . 
raul julia plays aram fingal , a drone data processing worker for novicorp whose active imagination and predilection for hacking gets him into trouble with authority . 
caught watching " casablanca " on his desk monitor , fingal is sentenced to " doppling " rehabilitation--he is to spend forty-eight hours in the body of a baboon . 
 ( how exactly this is supposed to rehabilitate him is anybody's guess . ) 
as it happens , thanks to a visiting schoolboy's prank , his body is temporarily misplaced , and his mind has to be shunted into the central computer to keep him alive until they can find it . 
as time ticks away before his memory cube self-destructs , the frantic search for his body is on . . . while 
fingal first creates a virtual reality fantasy world , then finds there's no better way to hack the system than from the inside . 
during the chaos , computer technician apollonia james ( linda griffiths ) maintains contact with fingal through a datalink , manifesting several different times to offer advice or warnings . 
over the course of their interactions , interest on both their parts grows into a budding romance . 
given that " casablanca " is fingal's favorite film , and the basis for his fantasy world , a great deal of the movie is homage to " casablanca " . 
in fact , the humphrey bogart and peter lorre characters make appearances ( played by julia in a dual role and louis negin , respectively ) in a bar called " the place " . 
julia's portrayal of bogart is passable , and avoids becoming the " schweethaat " -spouting parody seen in cartoons . 
negin's peter lorre is quite credible , and easily the best peter lorre i've ever seen who wasn't the real thing . 
the two of them , as characters created by fingal's imagination , serve as aspects of his personality , driving him on in his quest to hack the computer system . 
those aren't the only casablanca characters to put in appearances . 
the sydney greenstreet character also happens to be around . . . as " the fat man " , the alternate aspect of the film's main villain , the novicorp chairman ( donald c . moore ) . 
while fingal's body is lost , the fat man tries to stop him from hacking the system . . . with 
less than salutory results . 
it's interesting to note the futuristic slang words that are thrown about left and right during the film , in the best golden-age science fiction tradition . 
words like " dopple " , " psychist " , " computech " , " cinema " , and " reconst " are apparently in common use . 
and while people of today may well laugh at fourteen years past's idea of futuristic data processing clerks , some aspects of this film are surprisingly perfectly in keeping with the way we think of " virtual reality " today . 
as cyberpunk films go , this may not be a staple of the genre , but it's definitely recommended viewing . 
the special effects are very primitive , placing this production in the realm of low-to-medium-budget television . 
the music is completely electronic-synthesized , which fits the low budget but isn't really out of keeping with the genre . 
however , the writing quite makes up for it . 
there are some very funny moments , and quite a few little in-jokes that one needs to have seen " casablanca " to appreciate properly . 
all in all , i give " overdrawn at the memory bank " a . 

tibet has entered the american consciousness slowly during the past few years and burst into the forefront recently . 
the dalai lama has made speaking tours , tibetan designs and artifacts are showing up in shops , the plight of the people has captured the imagination of major actors and artists and now there are two big budget films within as many months . 
 " kundun " ( " presence " , a name the monks call the young dalai lama ) opens in 1937 with the search for the 14th incarnation of the tibetan leader . 
a group of monks enters a village and a two-year-old child catches their attention . 
the young boy proves himself by identifying possessions of the previous holy man as " mine " . 
he and his family are then moved to a monastery in lhassa where he is to be prepared to take his position as the religious and political leader of the country . 
he is forced into difficult decisions when china invades the country in 1950 . 
the peaceful and isolated country is ill-equipped to fight off the intruders and diplomatic attempts over the next years yield no results . 
eventually he must make the painful choice to flee to neighboring india . 
comparisons to " seven years in tibet " are inevitable . 
both films cover much of the same ground although the earlier movie does so from a westerner's point of view and features boxoffice draw brad pitt . 
 " kundun " features only native actors and is more of an insider's story . 
in some ways , this makes this film a superior concept , but it lacks the movement and spark that made " seven years " such an audience-pleaser . 
the actors contribute to the realistic feel of the movie ( filmed in morocco for obvious reasons ) . 
the only disappointment is chairman mao who looks like a wax dummy and moves as if he were a computer-generated character . 
on an intellectual level , it is interesting to see how two different approaches handle the same facts . 
some events are depicted differently and pitt's austrian mountain-climber who was portrayed as a pivotal influence in the dalai lama's life isn't even mentioned here . 
glossed over in " seven years " , the problems with the tibetan political system is hinted at here as the dalai lama muses " we were just about to change things " after the chinese attack . 
the film is magnificently beautiful thanks primarily to the cinematography of roger deakins . 
his lingering camera shows the exotic tibetan culture with luscious detail . 
especially striking is an extreme moving close up of a sand mandala grain by grain . 
the visual treats more than make up for the movie's faults creating a poetic meditation for the audience . 
walking out of the theater you feel like you have awakened from a transcendental experience . 
martin scorsese , known for his dark tales of the underworld ( " goodfellas " , " taxi driver " , " casino " ) has shifted gears . 
something of a thematic follow-up to his " the last temptation of christ " , this is his slowest film yet . 
oddly enough for a director with a history of graphic violence presenting a history filled with atrocities by the chinese , most of these events take place off-screen . 
his decision to not over-explain rituals is commendable . 
the stumbling oracle who spits out his prophecies while in a trance state is much more effective as a mystery than if we were spoon-fed interpretations . 
philip glass's score is impressive although at times it is too overwhelming and distracting . 
i talked to a tibetan i met outside the theater who had just seen the film and was walking back in to see it again . 
hearing his description of how he escaped from tibet at the age of seven and how his father was one of the soldiers accompanying the dalai lama during his trip to india , i was struck by what was missing in the movie . 
as grand as it looks and as historically accurate as it is , there is a distance between the audience and the movie . 
the film is more concerned with visuals and history and less so with human beings . 
with the exception of a few scenes , involvement with the characters is slight . 
one of those exceptions is the portrayal of the young dalai lama , shown as a mischievous boy who can't resist being a kid sometimes . 
an encounter with his older brother thubten j . norbu ( a retired indiana university professor ) who tells the young leader the chinese have ordered him to persuade him to accept communist rule or kill him is an outstanding moment , but there aren't many of these . 
even with its problems , the " kundun " experience is phenomenal , but one that i fear most will miss . 
many people who saw " seven years in tibet " will have a " been there , done that " attitude . 
it's likely that the film will miss a wide-spread appeal and public response will be the sound of one hand clapping . 

you've got to think twice before you go see a movie with a title like maximum risk . 
the title is generic . 
it's meaningless . 
and i can't believe it's good business . 
when you pick up the phone and dial 777-film , how in the world are you supposed to remember that the new jean-claude van damme movie , the one that looked kind of cool in the trailers and is directed by some chinese hot shot , is called , geez , maximum risk ? 
yuck . 
the movie itself deserves your attention . 
for sweet bloody thrills , this one beats the summer blockbuster competition hands-down . 
only mission : impossible came close to delivering as skillful a thriller , and i'll give maximum risk the edge simply because it's not as slick as the tom cruise picture , and therefore more gratifying in its execution . 
much to my surprise , van damme continues to develop as a pleasant , unpretentious action hero . 
his track record isn't as solid as schwarzenegger's , but he's a hell of a lot more adventurous than arnold . 
in 1993 , van damme worked with hong kong's premier hardcore action director , john woo , on a fairly lame movie called hard target . 
 ( if you can find a bootleg copy , woo's radically different director's cut is much better than what was eventually released . ) 
this follow-up is directed by ringo lam ( city on fire , full contact ) , whose hong kong films are distinguished action pictures that have consistently played second fiddle to woo's more operatic offerings . 
the surprise here is that maximum risk is a more effective hollywood action flick than either hard target or woo's subsequent broken arrow . 
here's the rundown . 
van damme plays a french cop named alain moreau who is shaken when a policeman friend ( jean-hugues anglade ) finds a corpse that's alain's exact double . 
turns out alain was separated at birth from his twin brother , michael , who has been killed by some russian heavies ( and some strangely american looking cops ) . 
alain does some investigating . 
he finds that michael had booked a flight to new york city , and received a message from someone there named alex bohemia . 
assuming michael's identity , alain flies to new york and gets tangled up with michael's girlfriend ( natasha henstridge ) , the fbi , and the russian mob in little odessa . 
that's as much as you need to know . 
the story is adequate , but not overly involving -- and the major plot points are basically explained to you twice , just in case you go out for popcorn at the wrong moment . 
there's a love story , too , but i didn't find it terribly convincing , partly because ex-model henstridge is too high-strung in her high-profile debut ( she had precious few lines as the alien ice queen in species ) . 
she's great to look at , and she can certainly read a line , but what she does here can't really be described as " acting . " 
of course , " acting " isn't really what she was hired for ( i lost track of whether her shirt comes off more often than van damme's ) . 
the movie is exceptionally violent , bordering on gratuity . 
 ( keep that in mind when planning your date . ) 
the stunts are spectacular , and the fact that you can spot van damme's stand-in makes his work no less impressive . 
there's only so much you can do with a car wreck , but this movie makes crisp , effective use of pile-ups in a handful of frenzied destruction derbies . 
and lam has a surprising , innovative sense of exactly where the camera should go to catch any bit of action . 
the main difference between lam and woo , i believe , is that while woo relies on sheer spectacle to gas up his action show pieces , lam has figured out more about using cinematic space and double-barreled points of view to make things run . 
don't get me wrong -- when chow yun-fat soars through space pumping bullets out of two pistols and chewing on a toothpick with glass and confetti littering the air around him in woo's hard-boiled , it's an amazing moment . 
but it's a moment that's hard to reproduce in hollywood . 
 ( for one thing , hollywood doesn't yet have chow yun-fat ! ) 
while woo's hollywood movies look like the work of a talented upstart , maximum risk is a surprisingly confident picture . 
the very first shot of the film is an awkward overhead view of a chase through the streets of a european city , but lam's use of odd camera angles becomes more efficient later on . 
the film editing is a particularly savvy complement to lam's shooting style , accentuating rather than amplifying the action . 
the performances could have used some fine tuning ( in particular , there's an annoying , overwritten manhattan cab driver in the early scenes who should have been toned down or jettisoned completely ) , and the movie doesn't always overcome the limitations of its genre . 
the story is a little mundane , although there are some effective moments involving van damme's unrequited feelings toward the brother he never knew he had . 
but it's not often that hollywood cranks out a truly satisfying action picture , and it's doubly surprising that this one should come with a mere whisper of publicity . 
van damme fans should treat themselves to what may well be the man's best movie , and international action buffs will no doubt savor this flavorful hong kong/hollywood hybrid . 

some movies require you to turn off your brain in order to watch . 
then there are movies that require you to accept that everyone * in * the movie has turned off * their * brains . 
the real mccoy is both . 
it's charmless , molasses-slow and so full of genuinely stupid people that the film commission of atlanta , where the real mccoy is set , might well consider some sort of ritual suicide for their complicity in this humiliation . 
the real mccoy opens with bank robber karen mccoy ( kim basinger ) being arrested in the middle of a job . 
six years later , karen is out on parole and looking to stay straight . 
she soon bumps into j . t . barker ( val kilmer ) , a hapless would-be thief who idolizes karen . 
j . t . also has ties to jack schmidt ( terence stamp ) , the man who blew the whistle on karen six years earlier for refusing to work with him . 
schmidt , who is in cahoots with karen's sleazy parole officer ( gailard sartain ) , again wants karen to help him stage a robbery . 
this time he has some leverage : karen's kidnapped son . 
just when she thought she was out , they keep pulling her back * in . * 
contrivances and sloppy plotting fly off the screen so fast and furiously you have to duck to avoid being hit by them . 
leading the list is the jack schmidt character , who through unexplained but presumably foul mains is already extremely wealthy when our story begins . 
there is no reason given why he should need or want to get involved in another crime , let alone why he would actually participate in the break-in . 
karen's initial encounter with j . t . during a botched convenience store hold-up also strains the limits of credibility . 
it would have been simple enough to have them somehow entangled at that point , but instead they run into each other the next day because they're leaving their parole officers at exactly the same moment . 
small world , eh ? 
then there's the convenient car trouble during an attempted escape , and pet tigers which , through the power of the laws of bad cinema , must inevitably confront someone who has blundered into their cage . 
however , the buffoon prize goes to the atlanta police , who come off like the keystone kops on a bad day . 
but the fun doesn't end there in the shambles of a script by william davies and william osborne . 
there is also the absence of a single , solitary interesting character . 
karen is earnest and single-minded in her motherly devotion , but lacking any kind of edge which would make her a convincing criminal , and basinger is not a thespian adept at fleshing out flimsy material . 
schmidt is a flaccid villain , the parole officer is a complete blank , and karen's son and ex-husband might as well be furniture . 
only kilmer's j . t . is remotely appealing , but his one potentially intriguing quality , his ineptitude , is never developed . 
in fact , kilmer disappears during the middle of the film , just when his admiration for karen could have made for an interesting sub-plot . 
i might have been more forgiving if the pacing had been more appropriate to a caper comedy , but the real mccoy goes nowhere fast . 
various scenes of sneaking and skulking seem to take forever , and some end with no reason evident why they didn't end up on the cutting room floor . 
even the reasonably clever climactic break-in falls victim to this syndrome , including a scene of one of the thieves drilling open a vault which lasts ( i kid you not ) four minutes . 
there is no tension in the scene , just tedium . 
russell mulcahy ( highlander ) is a director with some style , and indeed the real mccoy looks reasonably good , but he completely stumbles in the editing room . 
there are so many big problems with the real mccoy that i'm tempted to overlook the little ones . 
like karen disarming one of schmidt's henchmen and throwing his gun into the middle of a park where her son is playing . 
like a fountain crushed when a van runs into it reappearing in one piece a few moments later . 
tempted . but i'm pretty good at resisting temptation . 

a fully loaded entertainment review - website coming in july ! 
i didn't really expect very much when i rented stuart saves his family . 
the movie bombed at the box office , and i had never really liked the saturday night live sketch on which the movie was based . 
my real concern , though , was the general reputation of snl-related movies translating to the big screen with less-than-stellar results ( half-baked , anyone ? ) 
i was surprised to discover a truly entertaining , often hilarious yet also touching little film . 
it is an al franken production through-and-through , who not only created the title character but also wrote and starred in the picture . 
for those of you who don't know , al franken plays a guy named stuart smalley , who has a really annoying show on a public-access station about increasing your self-esteem , etc . although not a licensed therapist , stuart smalley is , as the program proudly boasts , " a graduate of several 12-step programs . " 
stuart is doing well enough with his tv show , but he keeps getting distracted by family troubles . 
stuart's relatives are a mess : his dad and brother ( harris yulin and vincent d'onofrio , respectively ) are alcoholics , his sister is overweight and getting over another divorce , and his mom is in constant self-denial and solves all perceived problems by baking . 
then , disaster strikes . 
stuart accidentally insults the manager of the station and gets his show revoked . 
he is forced to move back in with his family after he can no longer support himself , and there the comedy truly picks up . 
franken wrote all of the characters not just as cliches or stereotypes , but as sharply-drawn , real people . 
although smalley's dad has always imbibed too much , stuart can still recall times when his father seemed like an okay guy . 
also , after an accident towards the end of the movie , both stuart and the audience learn that there is more to his mother than previously thought . 
although filled with small , very funny scenes , stuart saves his family also has its share of dramatic moments , especially towards the conclusion . 
for a lightweight comedy , it handles these scenes especially well , often better than many so-called " serious dramas " of today . 
all the more amazing is that such a movie comes from a saturday night live sketch that is essentially a one-joke bit . 
if you feel like renting a comedy , and you haven't seen this film , i definitely recommend you try this one out . 
you'll laugh . . . you'll 
cry . . . . it's 
all there . 

after 1993's " falling down , " i hoped that joel schumacher would mature into a great director . 
since then he has offered us two so-so adaptations of john grisham novels ( " the client " and " a time to kill " ) and two batman movies that lowered the standards of that franchise . 
although these disappointments dampened my enthusiasm for schumacher's potential , the publicity for his latest release , " 8mm , " raised new hope . 
it promised to be something unusual . 
it wasn't . 
the plot goes like this : tom welles ( nicolas cage ) is a private eye who is hired by a wealthy woman , allegorically named mrs . christian ( myra carter ) , to investigate an 8mm movie found among her late husband's belongings . 
the movie appears to be a snuff film in which a teenage girl is raped and murdered by a man in a leather mask ( who reminds me of bane in schumacher's " batman & robin " ) . 
because murders can be realistically simulated in movies , mrs . christian wants tom to discover if the girl is alive or dead . 
by combing through missing persons reports , tom finds the girl's name and tracks her to los angeles . 
with the aid of max california ( joaquin phoenix ) , a video store clerk ( and another symbolic name ) , tom wanders through the underworld of pornography in search of snuff . 
the plot bears an obvious resemblance to paul schrader's " hardcore , " in which a father goes deeper and deeper into the industries of porn and sex to find his missing daughter . 
both films are modeled on dante's " the inferno , " of course ; " 8mm " makes that connection overly obvious by casting max as virgil and having him constantly tell tom that they were heading toward a meeting with the devil . 
 " hardcore " is a much more subtle and meaningful film . 
 " 8mm " had a lot of promise . 
in its better moments it's an examination of violence as entertainment and of the beast within even a nice guy like tom . 
one moment of the first sort : when we first meet max he's reading truman capote's " in cold blood " underneath the cover of a porn novel . 
 " in cold blood " was the father of the true-crime genre , which is the literary equivalent of snuff films . 
max promises that we will see examples of the second theme when he tells tom , " dance with the devil and the devil don't change ; the devil changes you . " 
tom does change-i'll let you discover the specifics for yourself-but not permanently . 
schumacher and screenwriter andrew kevin walker didn't have the guts to take tom so far down the dark tunnel that he couldn't come back . 
 ( walker's " seven " did a much better job on that theme by refusing to compromise ) . 
cage tries hard to pull it off , but the script doesn't give him enough to work with . 
phoenix walks away with the movie-he's smart , charming , and funny . 
other cast members include " fargo " 's peter stormare camping it up as porn auteur dino velvet and " the sopranos " 's james gandolfini as a soulless porn merchant who pushes tom too far . 
in the last analysis , since " 8mm " falls short of its pretensions and its promise , its just another private eye story in the raymond chandler/ross macdonald tradition of having the detective uncover the depravity behind the glossy facade of wealth and privilege . 
however , unlike other predictable fare in the genre-last year's " twilight , " for example- " 8mm " is especially disappointing because it could have been much more than it is . 

deserves recognition for : achieving the near-impossible task of making a grander monument to self-love than steven seagal's on deadly ground . 
capsule review : a question : after the floating baby ruth that was waterworld , what in the @$&% were the hollywood execs who gave kevin costner the money to make another post-apocalyptic movie thinking ? 
in this 3 hour advertisement for his new hair weave , costner plays a nameless drifter who dons a long dead postal employee's uniform and gradually turns a nuked-out usa into an idealized hippy-dippy society . 
 ( judging by the costuming at the end of the movie , the main accomplishment of this brave new world is in re-inventing polyester . ) 
when he's not pointing the camera directly at himself , director costner does have a nice visual sense , and it is undeniably fascinating to see such an unabashedly jingoistic film in the trust-no-one 90's ; but by the time the second hour rolled around , i was reduced to sitting on my hands to keep from clawing out my own eyes . 
mark this one " return to sender " . 

well , here's a distasteful , thoroughly amateurish item that , surprisingly , was actually a box-office hit at the time of its release . 
after just viewing the film for the first time , my primary question is how did anyone with an iq north of 35 enjoy this movie ? 
it is cheap , idiotic , unfunny , and not nearly as raunchy as i had heard it was . 
at least some smut would have livened things up a bit . 
 " porky's , " tells the story ( if you can call it that ) of four clueless high school buddies , pee wee ( dan monahan ) , billy ( mark herrier ) , tommy ( wyatt knight ) , and mickey ( roger wilson ) , whom desperately want to get laid . 
women , for the most part , are a mystery to them ( and in this movie , they are to the audience , as well , since all of them are written and acted as if they are aliens from a different planet ) . 
their plan is sidetracked , however , when they venture out to a smarmy strip bar named porky's , which they are able to get into using fake id's . 
after they pay the manager one-hundred bucks for three hookers , they are played a trick on and find themselves being dumped into the swamp below the building . 
for these four teenage guys , this means war on porky's . 
 " porky's , " ultimately manages to fail on almost every possible level . 
as a teenage sex-romp , it is not wild or amusing enough . 
as a comedy , all of the jokes are predictable and fall flat . 
as a look back at the 1950's , it is something , i suspect , most people from that era would want to bury deep in a grave . 
and as a revenge movie , it is a crushing bore . 
one of the most offensive things about , " porky's , " is how jaw-droppingly inaccurate the film is about teenagers . 
the four main characters are not even attempted to be developed as characters , and we learn very little about them , except that they are horny and would probably feel more comfortable in a preschool . 
that sure is revealing information . 
the female characters fare even worse under the inaudacious screenplay and direction by bob clark . 
the women are all treated as objects or comedy props , rather than real people . 
for example , the two gym teachers , mrs . balbricker ( nancy parsons ) and honeywell ( kim cattrall ) , only have one purpose , and that is to be made fun of . 
mrs . balbricker is a gruff , no-holds-barred , overwight woman who will not stand for any foolishness , and , in one particularly embarrassing scene for all involved , honeywell has sex with a coach and barks like a dog . 
there is no way to tell if parsons or cattrall are servicable actresses ( even though i have the suspicion they are not ) , but one thing is for sure : they are asked to do things in this film that are not at all funny , only humiliating . 
to prove how out-of-touch this so-called comedy is , compare it to other more serious 80's films about teenagers , and it looks even worse in comaprison . 
any of the john hughes pictures , such as 1984's " sixteen candles , " or , 1985's " the breakfast club , " put , " porky's , " at an even greater shame . 
those films actually dealt with serious teen matters , but remained a great deal funnier , thanks to their bright and truthful writing . 
and heck , if , " porky's , " wanted to be a teenage sex movie , i'd take 1982's " fast times at ridgemont high , " or 1982's " the last american virgin , " over this any day of the week . 
director bob clark is not a bad director . 
two years after he made , " porky's , " he directed the nostalgic holiday classic , " a christmas story . " 
i would forgive him for this misfire , in fact , if it wasn't for the fact that he also wrote the screenplay . 
just the thought that someone would actually sit down to write such a piece of garbage , and think that it was actually a film worth releasing unto the unsuspecting world , is actually a whole lot funnier than anything in , " porky's . " 

kate ( jennifer aniston ) is having some problems . 
it appears the twenty-eight year old is not happy with her slow progression up the company ladder , and her love life apparently leaves something to be desired . 
she learns that her problems are related , as the owner of her advertising agency , mr . mercer ( kevin dunn ) , explains to her that her single status does not bode well with the company . 
her freedom would make her more likely to leave the company , taking clients with her . 
a solution presents itself in nick ( jay mohr ) , a wedding videographer who kate meets through a coincidence and gets photographed with . 
kate's boss , darcy ( illeana douglas ) , uses the photograph to fabricate a wedding engagement between kate and nick . 
kate is at first repulsed by the idea , but after getting immediate positive results , she pursues it . 
her first task is to convince nick to go along with her plan . 
the actual plan consists of nick pretending to be her fianc ? . 
at a dinner with kate's bosses he will provoke a fight and they will break up . 
she meets nick to propose the plan . 
he accepts . 
kate's new status brings unexpected results in other areas . 
the office bad boy , sam ( kevin bacon ) , who wouldn't give kate the time of day , now does . 
now that she is engaged , he pursues an affair with her , as doing so would destroy her good girl image , hence sam's sudden interest . 
things start to fall apart for kate , as it becomes apparent that nick really likes her , and does not wish to break up with her . 
after some provoking nick does oblige , but problems continue for kate . 
it appears sam is no longer interested now that she is available . 
or maybe kate does like nick , but " reconciliation " will force her to admit her lies to her employer . 
adding to her mess is the constant prying of her mother ( olympia dukakis ) , who wants her to get married and settle down . 
there is a scene in this movie where jennifer aniston is ( from the waist up ) only wearing a bra . 
it made me chuckle because it is the only time in the movie when she actually wears one . 
there is enough cleavage in this movie to satisfy russ meyer . 
it's like the director said 'well , we know the story is formulaic and the performances aren't that great so , what the heck , let's show jennifer's assets as often and as uncovered as humanly possible to keep the pg rating . " 
quite frankly it's insulting . 
i don't think aniston is a competent enough actress to carry a movie . 
she did a decent enough job in ed burns' " she's the one " because it was a smaller and supporting role , and she just doesn't deliver the goods effectively in this movie . 
her performance was not convincing . 
unfortunately , as far as romantic comedies go , this movie adds nothing new to the standard formula for these types of movies . 
the film is similar to " my best friends wedding " in a sense that the leading female character is actually quite vindictive and due her actions , gets no sympathy from me when things go awry . 
i didn't care for how quickly kate puts down nick's profession by explaining that videotaping weddings wasn't glamorous enough for her co-workers . 
at least " my best friends wedding " changed the formula a bit and had a somewhat surprise ending . 
no such luck with " picture perfect " . 
every plot occurrence can be spotted a mile away , including a couple that really made no sense . 
after everything kate had done to prove her loyalty to her company , why would she blindly throw it all away when she should have made sure that nick would even talk to her first , let alone consider a relationship ? 
was quitting her job a prerequisite to making amends with nick ? 
throw in the fact that i don't think nick and kate spent enough time together to even warrant that rash of a decision . 
i believe that kate liked him , but liked him so intensely that she was willing to throw her career away ? 
i doubt it . 
and what of the ending scene at a wedding where the entire congregation feels it necessary to stop everything and stare at the couple ? 
are mass groups of people simultaneously that interested in total strangers ? 
well , i guess of the congregation consists of movie extras and the strangers are the movies two lead stars , then that would make sense . 
picture perfect directed by glenn gordon caron 
kate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . jennifer aniston nick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . jay 
mohr sam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kevin 
bacon mercer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kevin 
dunn darcy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . illeana 
douglas rita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . olympia 
dukakis 
written by randy turgeon , february 26 , 1998 . 
visit my movie reviews ! 
www . xtdl . com/~canran 

it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch . 
take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like . 
however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies . 
it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own . 
mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it . 
what a crock . 
if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for . 
why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending . 
you're fired . 
let's get someone else to do it . 
- i suppose honor is dead in hollywood . 
the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized . 
which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize . 
in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money . 
i miss originality in film , i really do . 
i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original . 
payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth . 
while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman . 
there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life . 
and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant . 
the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 . 
gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less . 
he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand . 
a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest . 
this idea is completely stretched out . 
gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with . 
what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia . 
$70 , 000 is like spare change to them . 
they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him . 
i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 . 
maybe i'm being too hard on the movie . 
perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie . 
i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy . 
that's why we're allowed to root for him . 
and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard . 
but he's wrong here . 
i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker . 
as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback . 
after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ? 
really , i don't care . 
i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can . 

the happy bastard's 30-second review 
notting hill 
a cute romantic comedy from the writer of the hit comedy four weddings and a funeral , notting hill stars julia roberts as anna scott , a very popular actress with a $15 million asking price for movies . 
one day she wanders into a travel book store owned by a simple london resident ( played by hugh grant ) , and sparks somehow begin to fly . 
sure , there are points of turmoil , such as putting up with grant's slightly disgusting ( but very hilarious ) roommate spike , anna's pesky ex-boyfriend ( alec baldwin in a humorous cameo ) , and , on top of all that , those damn press . 
it's a fresh sort of complexity to see in a romantic comedy , very different from , say , a stubborn father or " not the right time " like as seen in usual flicks . 
roberts is terrific as the astonishingly beautiful actress , and grant is surprisingly good as the straightforward guy still trying to get a hold of what has actually happened with this girl . 
in short , a sweet romantic comedy that has a lot of good laughs , particularly provided by spike . 
one tee-shirt really says it all about him . 
in an attempt to turn on a woman , he shows the front of the shirt , which says : " you are the most beautiful woman in the world . " 
on the back ? 
 " fancy a f * * k ? " 

capsule : annoyingly unentertaining , obvious and paper-thin buddy/cop/drug/sexy-witness movie . 
presence of director michael bay shows none of the talent he demonstrated in the rock . 
i've seen this movie already , i said , as i looked at the box art . 
no , i haven't even seen a trailer for the movie ; i don't even know what it's about , but i can look at the way they're promoting it , and i know i've seen it already . 
i thought : it's about these two cops . 
and they're buddies , sort of . 
they're at each other's throats a lot , but they really do like each other . 
and everyone else in their department hates them 'cause they're hot-shots . 
and they have some kind of diametric opposition in their relationship . 
and one day they're in the middle of cop business as usual when they get mixed up in this plot that involves a really sadistic bad guy with lots of henchmen who can never hit anything with the billions of rounds of ammo they are always carrying . 
and the bad guy is a drug lord . 
and there's a witness , and she's this sexy thing who rubs both of them the wrong way . 
and their supervisor wants their badges for breakfast when they blow up half the town bringing this guy down . 
i only missed the bit about the badges . 
the rest i got dead-on . 
and i hadn't even left the video store yet . 
the cops in this movie are will smith and martin lawrence , and the bad guy is the immensely underutilized tcheky karyo . 
smith plays a cop who has a trust fund and is thus not a cop for the money ; martin l . is a family man ( shades of the now-tired lethal weapon dynamic here ) whose wife and he are at total odds . 
this leads to some strained scenes about lawrence's " not getting any " , and some totally unneccesary bits with him skulking around his own house , thinking his partner is now his wife's " back door man " . 
not funny ; tiresome . 
bad boys gets some of its incredibly meager selling points from the presence of will smith and martin lawrence . 
will smith is a natural , and i'm happy to see him in movies like six degrees . . . 
and men in black . 
he's funny and charming without trying to be ; he really does seem to be enjoying himself . 
martin lawrence is a different story ; he's so uptight and verbally constipated that sitting through his improvised riffs are a trial . 
movies like this are not about originality . 
i know this . 
they are about style and energy and synergy between actors . 
i know this , too . 
and yet , while watching bad boys , which its glamorous photography and impossibly exact stunt choreography , i felt fed up . 
i'd seen con air , which despite being completely implausible , was still great fun , because it tried however feebly to put some new life into the mix . 
bad boys is a dry run -- and overlong , too , clocking in at just over two hours with a lot more by-play than i felt could be justified . 
i could write this movie . 
you could write this movie . 
many people have . 
many people will continue to write this movie , over and over again . 
other people will buy it from them , and make it , and we will pay money to see it . 
more the fools we all . 
in a terrifyingly prescient line from his book a scanner darkly , phil k . dick once mused that the mcdonaldburger ( as he called it ) would eventually eclipse money as the token of cultural and financial exchange . 
one day we will all just sit in our living rooms and sell the same burger back and forth to each other . 
the same could be said about this movie . 
i have the sinking feeling we're going to see it again . 
soon . 

when i was growing up in 1970s , boys in my school used to divide into two groups , based on their action movies preferences . 
the first one , myself included , liked movies that featured spectacular car chases , lots of machinegun fire and huge explosions . 
the latter one preferred hong kong martial arts flicks , probably because they could ( or , to be more precise , thought they could ) imitate its stunts in the real life . 
decades later , while refining my own cinematic taste , i began to appreciate and actually like those movies , probably because of overexposure to shoot-em-up idiocy of 1980s ramboids . 
yes , most of the kung fu and other " martial arts " flicks were cheap , they had predictable and formulaic plot , and asked very little of production values aside from martial arts skills . 
but , in the same time , those movies had their own rules and in the hands of capable director could become a terrific guilty pleasure and source of relaxation . 
the best of those movies , one that passed the test of time and managed to keep its own cult status after quarter of century was enter the dragon . 
made in 1973 in a joint hong kong - hollywood venture , it was intended to bring bruce lee's skills and kung fu philosophy to the western audience . 
it succeeded , but it is still debatable whether by its own merit or by the unfortunate and mysterious death of bruce lee that immortalised the myth about that actor . 
lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert . 
he is approached by interpol official who asks him to join tri-annual martial arts tournament that is held on a remote island , owned and controlled by han , renegade shaolin monk . 
interpol suspects that the martial arts business is just cover for narcotics , gun-running and prostitution operations and lee must find the evidence necessary for authorities to intervene . 
lee accepts the mission because of personal reasons - o'harra , han's brutal bodyguard was responsible for the tragic death of lee's sister years ago . 
the island is also destination of two colourful martial arts experts from us - williams ( played by jim kelly ) is black activist running from the racist police , and his friend roper wants to make money in order to pay gambling debts . 
the plot of enter the dragon was in many ways influenced by james bond ( the 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements in the man with the golden gun two years later ) . 
the main hero was faced against a power-hungry megalomaniac on a remote island , alone against whole army of bad guys . 
on the other hand , lee was more believable hero than bond ; deprived of guns and super-tech gadgets , he had to rely only on his personal skills in order to survive . 
in the same time , the plot , although extremely thin , allowed him even some internal battles - between the natural instinct to avenge his sister and his own anti-violent philosophy . 
the latter provided some opportunities to evaluate lee's acting skills and some new elements to his impressive screen presence . 
although two other main actors - john saxon being the obligatory good white guy and jim kelly being the obligatory black good guy - were intended to share top spot with lee , they served as nothing more than a comic relief . 
it is a real shame to see kelly , definitely the worse actor than saxon , to steal the scenes from him only because his lines , being the worst possible blaxploitation cliches , sound so damn over the top . 
other actors , not including shih kien who turns han into typical , although not very convincing bondian villain , are nothing more than fist fodder for bruce lee ( among them is young jackie chan ) . 
fighting scenes are still impressive today as they were 25 years ago , although they mostly lack gore associated with that genre . 
in many way they are also more realistic ( they were personally staged by lee himself ) , demanding only a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent . 
i'm not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan , but comparing those scenes with typical scenes today i simply can't avoid to appreciate the difference from today's movie fights when masses of bloody pulp manage to get up from the floor and win in the end . 
so , despite all the obvious flaws that preclude this movie of being top 100 of all times , enter the dragon is a incredibly entertaining piece of cinema and the martial arts flick that can be enjoyed even by those who don't like that particular genre . 

martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me . 
because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks . 
as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something . 
i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story . 
no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies . 
for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other . 
there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on . 
or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building . 
again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing . 
i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking . 
but he simply uses the best tool for the job . 
it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward . 
the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet . 
the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . " 
his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story . 
 ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . ) 
we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old . 
his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama . 
a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before . 
several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items . 
the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own . 
the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama . 
scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk . 
before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation . 
sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice . 
either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader . 
>from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation . 
it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child . 
in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services . 
but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage . 
neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person . 
certain patterns take shape over the years . 
for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology . 
radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys . 
when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet . 
he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals . 
it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter . 
but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china . 
tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border . 
the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays . 
the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india . 
the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do . 
it just doesn't fit that mold . 
if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) . 
the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that . 
the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa . 
perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet . 
a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie . 
the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold . 
the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans . 
even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet . 
philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice . 
for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala . 
his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns . 
these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition . 
people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music . 
it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person . 
on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 

movie concepts are often pitched to producers with mathematical formulas involving successful films of the past . 
so , undoubtedly one day someone said , " 'evolution ? ' 
it's 'ghostbusters' plus 'men in black' plus 'tremors . ' " 
and so it is . 
sum total none . 
the alienbusting begins when a meteor lands in glen canyon , arizona . 
community college science profs ira kane ( david duchovny ) and harry block ( orlando jones ) take some samples from the meteor and discover that one-celled organisms from inside it are evolving rapidly , doing in hours what took millions of years for life on earth . 
just about the time i was wondering , " hey , doesn't the government usually come in and take over the whole area in these movies , " the government came in and took over the whole area . 
the leader of the pack , gen . woodman ( ted levine ) , turns out to be an old nemesis of ira's , and ira and harry are blocked from doing further research . 
meanwhile , the organisms continue to grow until they are large enough to start attacking people . 
by this time , ira and harry have gained a friend in dr . allison reed ( julianne moore ) of the center for disease control . 
a country club poolboy , wayne green ( seann william scott ) , has also attached himself to the merry band . 
but can they find the means to stop the aliens in time ? 
director ivan reitman seems to be revisiting his biggest hit , 1984's " ghostbusters , " but " evolution " falls miserably short . 
one reason is readily apparent . 
 " ghostbusters " had three really funny guys as its scientists ( bill murray , dan aykroyd , and harold ramis ) , but " evolution " has one really funny guy ( orlando jones ) who can adlib and milk the comic potential of lines that prove useless in anyone else's hands . 
for good measure , " ghostbusters " had the comic talents of rick moranis ; " evolution " offers seann william scott , who was much funnier in " american pie " and " road trip " than he is here . 
scott has one amusing scene where he sings " you are so beautiful to me " to a dragon-like alien to draw it into a trap . 
other than that , scott seems unable to make much of the thin material the writers gave him . 
an actor in search of a forte , david duchovny looked for his gritty action hero side in " playing god " and his romantic side in " return to me . " 
now he wants to find his wacky comedic talent ; what we all find is that he doesn't have any . 
look for him to be back on tv in five years or so . 
another sad case is julianne moore , who needs to be more selective about the offers she accepts . 
she's a talented actress with an impressive list of credits and award nominations , so why is she trying to do slapstick comedy ? 
her character has a tendency to trip over and bump into things , but the trait comes off as a pathetic plea for laughs . 
the sole saving grace of the film is jones . 
he's at the center of the movie's funniest scene -- where an alien bug invades harry's body and has to be pulled out through his ass . 
jones is the only cast member who can take the comedic ball and run with it , but he can't carry the whole movie by himself . 
he found himself in a similar situation in " the replacements , " where he was also the only comic talent in an ensemble cast . 
jones will eventually find the project that will make him a major comedy star , but this isn't it . 

what i look for in a movie is not necessarily perfection . 
sometimes a movie has such strong ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have , i will prefer it to a better-made film that is not as thought-provoking . 
the thin red line is flawed but it provokes . 
terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 years after days of heaven and produces this meditative look at war . 
unlike this year's saving private ryan , which dwells on war as a necessary evil and explores the moral ambiguities thereof , the thin red line simply says war is waste . 
while that might seem obvious to some , only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is . 
saving private ryan has an underlying and practical acceptance that war will occur and it has a great cost ; the thin red line says idealistically avoid this at all costs . 
one message is not necessarily more correct than the other . 
it just depends on one's point of view . 
in malick's film , war is set in a tropical paradise , and john toll's cinematography is beyond lush . 
the setting poses the question , why are we fighting in the face of such beauty ? 
in saving private ryan , the capture of a german soldier presents the moral quandary of whether to let him go . 
in the thin red line , the japanese present the moral quandary of war in the first place . 
they are just like the americans -- frightened and angry , grieving and praying . 
all that separates them is war . 
the flaw in the thin red line comes in the voice-overs . 
unbelievable as coming from the characters and sometimes pretentious , sometimes corny , the voice-overs tell us what the images before us already do and are completely unnecessary . 
dispensing with them , malick could have achieved a tarkovskian grandeur . 
instead , he gets distracting self-consciousness . 
aside from that , malick's direction is stunning . 
the tracking shots across windswept hills and around transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary . 
sean penn , elias koteas , and nick nolte give the best performances . 
penn is subtle as a sergeant trying to hide his humanism , koteas is genuine as a compassionate captain , and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle . 
john travolta and george clooney are the worst in cameo roles . 
ultimately however , the thin red line's interest is not in the characters and it is not in drama . 
it has been frequently criticized for its lack of dramatic structure , but malick clearly has different things on his mind . 
has no one ever thought that getting dramatic entertainment from war is exploitative ? 
what malick is working with is theme , and in that , the thin red line is most provoking . 

the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada . 
the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual . 
plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities . 
he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee . 
ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . ) 
critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime . 
admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line . 
the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending . 
quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion . 
sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters . 
i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad . 
i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision . 
this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer . 
i thought that was neat . 
having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre . 
little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi . 
many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) . 
donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal . 

 " living out loud , " is the type of motion picture we don't often see : it is a film about mature , intelligent adults , instead of the usual american film , in which children basically dress up in grown-up clothing and parade around acting like immature seven-year-olds . 
judith ( holly hunter ) , a fortysomething living in new york city , has been having a difficult time with life lately . 
she is extremely depressed about her recent divorce to her husband ( martin donovan ) , who had been cheating on her . 
she cannot sleep , haunted by terrible memories , often imagines off-the-wall things to try and make the world seem like a better place , and the only place she can really go to feel happy is to hear one of her favorite singers , liz bailey ( queen latifah ) , perform at a local club . 
judith's life does start to brighten a little when , one night when she gets home to her apartment late , strikes up a conversation with the elevator operator , pat ( danny devito ) , a lonely man in his fifties whom has lost his daughter recently . 
both of them create a sort of emotional connection with each other , seeking comfort with the other person , but while pat starts to form a deep love for her , judith only wants to remain friends . 
 " living out loud , " which was written by richard lagravenese ( " the bridges of madison county " ) , who is also making his directing debut here , is a wonderful film from beginning to end , one that is honest , genuinely funny , and poignant . 
the three central characters , that of judith , pat , and liz , are all written to be free-thinking , complex human beings , and are all likable , but flawed , people who are constantly interesting , as is the film itself . 
one highly original element of the film is that judith occasionally imagines things occuring in her mind in the way she wishes they would happen . 
sometimes it results in comedy , and sometimes it turns out to be subtle and truly touching . 
one sequence that stands out is when judith is at a restaurant by herself , reading a novel . 
an older woman comes over to her , mentions that that is a great book she is reading , and then goes over to join her own friends . 
as the woman sits down , she looks over to see judith by herself , and motions for her to come join them . 
instantly , we realize this was simply in judith's mind , as we see the same woman just sit down at the table and begin talking to her friends . 
holly hunter and danny devito both give the performances of their careers here . 
hunter , of course , was brilliant in 1993's " the piano , " for which she won an academy award , but in this film she is even better , i think . 
she finds the right note for each scene and holds it . 
and devito has never had such a humanistic role before , which i was surprised about . 
usually he is used as the butt of a joke , or as a caricature , but in this film , has a living-and-breathing , sympathetic person to play . 
topping it all off is latifah , also a singer , who is quickly turning into a respectable actress herself , and has a juicy , natural supporting role as , in some ways , judith's role model . 
another joy of the film is that it does not somehow form a contrived , " happy " ending , but , in staying with its realistic tone , manages to be upbeat , but truthful . 
the last shot is an especially powerful image . 
nothing is said , but just the image of someone walking down a sidewalk says it all . 
the relationship that results between judith and pat is true-to-life and sincere . 
as we watch these two people talk , and get to know each other , all that we wish for them both is to be happy , even if that does not include for them to become romantically involved . 
and as , " living out loud , " which is one of the best films of the year , proves , sometimes a friendship is the strongest bond anyone could possibly ask for . 

how do you judge a film that is so bad , but intentionally so ? 
in spiceworld , the highly popular singing group the spice girls accomplish their major goal : mocking themselves with a purposely cheezy film and having a lot of fun doing it . 
if that was their goal , they did a fantastic job . 
so is it fair to give it such a low grade when it wasn't really meant to be much better than this ? 
honestly , i'd rather see this film before many others i gave higher grades , so does that mean i graded it inaccurately ? 
truth be known , i don't really think i can answer this question . 
to understand spiceworld , you have to understand the spice girls . 
unless you're very * very * young , or fairly older , you probably have at least heard of them . 
they're a group of five busty british babes who've had #1 hit singles and whose debut album sold millions . 
they're primarily adored by pre-teen girls who hope someday the contents of their training bras might match those of ginger spice's ( real name : geri haliwell ) wonderbra . 
all five of the girls have these " spicy " names for which they are better known than their real names . 
there is the aforementioned ginger spice , as well as sporty spice ( melanie chisholm , or mel c . ) , scary spice ( melanie brown , or mel b . ) , baby spice ( emma bunton ) , and posh spice ( victoria addams ) , and all of them , to some degree or another , resemble their stage names . 
the spice girls took the world by storm , and spiceworld is actually a good- humored spoof of all that transpired during their quick rise to fame . 
it's quite nice to see what good sports the girls are ( and not just the one dubbed sporty ) about poking fun at themselves . 
they don't take themselves too seriously , and that's probably the best thing about them . 
it's also surprising how natural they seem in front of the camera * acting * , and not just singing and dancing . 
they're not flawless by any means , but for the most part , they deliver their lines without feeling staged , and , like them or not , we get the sense the five are very at home within their characters ( which seems reasonable since they portray themselves ) . 
what makes the film bad is that extreme fans of the spice girls won't get enough of their music , while the rest of us don't get enough of a movie . 
the real point of this is to look at the spice girls for over ninety straight minutes . 
most of the film is very blas ? , but several parts are downright boring , and then they have those sporadic moments that actually make us laugh out loud ! 
if you're a big fan of the group , you probably won't get enough of what you want , and if you're not a big fan , you get too much time devoted to nothing more than " look at us " moments . 
for the right crowd , the " music video " sequences will be the highlights of the film , but for others , they will serve as three-minute lulls in a hectic-but-overall-uneventful storyline . 
other key actors include richard e . grant as clifford , the spice girls' manager , alan cumming as the film-maker piers cutherton-smyth who attempts to make a documentary of the group , george wendt as martin barnfield , a producer who constantly works on pitching a spice girls movie , and roger moore in a small , self-parodizing role . 
all provide relatively good performances , keeping in mind once again that this film wasn't meant to be acted seriously . 
even meat loaf shows up as dennis the bus driver and seems to have fun with it . 
while this film is continuously compared to the beatles' a hard day's night , i think that is an unjust comparison . 
it is supposedly the movie studio that first mad the comparison by way of press kits , but i don't think drector bob spiers , nor the spice girls , intended it to be so . 
i think the studios were just trying to boost hype and interest in the film , and have instead , come off rather pretentious . 
i don't think this film is trying to be anything more than a fun , satirical look at a group that got so big , a movie seemed the next likely step . 
and what could've been better than a self-indulged yet self- mocking approach ? 
probably nothing , and so it is . 
spiceworld is a movie i thought would be embarrassing to enjoy , but now instead , i find myself wanting to defend a movie i didn't even give a good review . 
it's bad , but it succeeds in every way it intended . 
it gives the spice girls a chance to play while allowing all those obsessive fans out there to indulge in every brainless moment . 
perhaps the group is nothing more than a gimmick . 
if that's the case , the movie's gimmick is that it * is * such a gimmick ! 
you might be saying , " a spice girls movie ? 
come on ! " , but when it comes down to it , i think that's the point . 

tommy lee jones chases an innocent victim around america who is trying to prove that she did not kill her spouse . 
the fugitive ? 
not quite ? this is the plot for double jeopardy , another fugitive copycat without the action , excitement , and good acting that the original had . 
there are other slight differences besides one movie being bad and the other good ; this time tommy lee jones plays a parole officer not a us marshall , clever huh ? 
oh and the fugitive ashley judd was framed by her own husband ( bruce greenwood ) who needed to collect two million dollars in life insurance money not a one armed man . 
both movies are on video . 
make the wise choice and pick the fugitive . 
there are so many flaws in double jeopardy , it is laughable . 
while serving time in prison , libby parsons ( judd ) discovers that she can never be charged for committing the same crime twice . 
learning that her husband is still alive , she decides to serve her time in prison , find him , retrieve her son , and kill her husband if necessary . 
when the strict parole officer travis lehman ( jones ) stands in her way , libby decides to break the rules ( who knows why ? ) and continue her plan , despite the fact that if she gets caught , she's going back to jail . 
director bruce beresford spends way too much time trying to convince the audience that libby misses her son . 
every other scene , we are given a shot of libby staring and crying at his picture . 
in an action movie like this , valuable time wasted on these shots takes away more opportunities for libby to get up and do something . 
all that is needed in this type of movie is a short scene in which libby tells herself or a friend " i miss my son . " 
nothing more , nothing less . 
dr . kimble of the fugitive didn't look at one picture of his dead wife , his primary concern was to save himself . 
libby at times shows this same determination but not nearly enough . 
ashley judd and bruce greenwood both are excellent actors but if they continue to do movies like this , they will be typecast for the rest of their careers , kind of like their doomed co-star tommy lee jones . 
winning an oscar for the fugitive must have convinced jones that audiences will never get tired of his i-do-my-job-whether-they-are-innocent-or-guilty roles . 
people still pay to see his movies and he makes plenty of money so i guess he was right . 
though i don't think he will win another oscar again . 
the ultimate mistake in the script is what eventually becomes of libby parsons . 
even if she was excused for disobeying her parole officer , the number of other crimes she commits while on the run are too numerous to count . 
burglary , assault , grand theft auto are some of libby's slipups . 
the message of the movie is you can break all of the small laws as long as you're innocent of the major crime . 
hopefully criminals won't use double jeopardy as a reference in court for why they are innocent . 
that would just be plain stupid . 

terrence malick made an excellent 90 minute film adaptation of james jones' world war ii novel . 
unfortunately , he buried it within an overlong and overreaching 3-hour long pseudo-epic . 
this is a shame because the film features an outstanding performance by nick nolte . 
the best scene is when nick nolte's character , lt . col . tall , is forced to deal with the direct refusal by capt . staros ( elias koteas ) to execute an order . 
nolte's reaction and transformation may be the best work of his career . 
had terrence malick concentrated on the great performances of nolte and koteas as well as those by sean penn , woody harrelson , and john cusack , he could have made a truly great film . 
instead , malick saddled the film with plodding pacing , unnecessary flashbacks , and a voice-over narration all designed to telegraph the great philosophical underpinnings of the story . 
the narration was especially annoying as much of it sounded like very bad high school poetry . 
with a lot of editing , the core story could be transformed into a truly classic war film . 
hopefully , the dvd version of this film will feature options to suppress the narration , and perhaps will even provide for an alternate , shorter version of the film . 
i give this film . 

one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances . 
now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this . 
o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company . 
he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her . 
his reasons ? 
well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . . 
i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) . 
eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever . 
he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring . 
the audience should now hate this character . 
i did . 
then the meat of the plot presents itself . 
jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business . 
however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) . 
having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " . 
the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly . 
it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point . 
ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " . 
as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? " 
it was quite surreal . 
something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive . 
up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good . 
at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers . 
when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story . 
at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride . 
these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman . 
when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them . 
as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off . 
this goes on for the rest of the film . 
it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women . 
my groans of disgust could be heard for miles . 
the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning . 
the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video . 
it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features . 
the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film . 
apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses . 
so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ? 
ugh . 

most movies seem to release a third movie just so it can be called a trilogy . 
rocky iii seems to kind of fit in that category , but manages to be slightly unique . 
the rocky formula of " rocky loses fight/rocky trains/rocky wins fight " is carried out to the letter . 
also the 'tradition' of showing the last five minutes or so from the past rocky film is used as well . 
this movie begins with a series of clips showing how famous rocky ( sylvester stallone ) has become . . . 
even showing a brief appearance on sesame street ! ! 
then it moves on with rocky being in a fixed fight with thunderlips ( hulk hogan ) . 
a mysterious bad-ass known as clubber lang ( mr . t ) trash-talks to rocky about his stupid decision to retire from boxing and that he " pities the fool " for not coming out and fighting him outright . 
rocky's trainer ( burgess meredith ) tells rocky not to fight , but the italian stallion doesn't listen . 
naturally , he gets his ass kicked . 
somewhere along the line after this several things happen . 
rocky's longtime trainer dies , causing rocky to train with his former opponent apollo creed . 
rocky's wife complains to her husband that he should fight . 
the final fight ensues between clubber and rocky . 
guess who wins ? 
the winner's name rhymes with 'smocky' . 
the movie is entertaning mainly because of clubber lang's over the top performance . 
the dramatic aspect has been toned down considerably since rocky ii and now action seems to be the strong point of the film . 
which is good if you like fighting scenes . 
the last match is quite decent actually . 
if you liked the previous films , rent this one . 
it's well worth seeing if you are a fan of the series . 
but if you can't stand rocky shouting " adrianne ! ! ! " 
one more time , see something else . 

many people dislike french films for their lack of closure . 
while possibly shallow , i've often had a desire for a sense of epiphany , or at least a resolution , in the films which i view . 
there is no revelation in un coeur en hiver in the traditional ; however , the film is incredibly successful in its passionate dramatization of a passion-denying protagonist , stephane ( daniel auteuil ) . 
stephane ( daniel auteuil ) is a master violin maker . 
he is passionless about all that which surrounds him except his craft and the music which his craft is responsible for producing . 
even the relationship between he and his boss , maxime ( andre dussollier ) is a controlled , and almost manipulated association , highlighted by the fact that stephane permits maxime to win close squash matches . 
in the beginning of the movie , stephane is a closed , solitary individual and the audience is carefully left to wonder about the depth of emotion behind this enigmatic man . 
camille kessler ( emmanuelle beart ) is a master violinist and the new love of maximes . 
maxime is so much in love with camille that he plans to and does leave his wife . 
like stephane , camille is outwardly very controlled and reserved , sacrificing all thought and emotion to her violin and the music which emerges . 
when stephane and camille meet , there is a recognition of a bonding by both individuals . 
however , whereas camille submits to the wild interplay of emotions which she now feels for stephane , stephane only admits that camille is attracted to him . 
stephane ignores his feelings for camille , which the audience cannot help but to see is present . 
as the movie progresses , the two characters become more and more polarized in their views and emotions for one another . 
these two people , with very similar approaches to life initially , react to their new circumstance very differently . 
stephane becomes even more rational and controlled , while camille becomes more tempestuous , until she almost borders on suffering a nervous breakdown due to the inability to consummate their relationship . 
however , their approach to each other is perhaps not surprising considering their vocation . 
the audience is led to believe that stephane may have been a genius as a violinist as well , due to his relationship with a master violin teacher . 
however , apparently , he could not be a violinist due to his intolerance for flaws in his playing . 
consequently , stephane becomes a precision craftsmen with the instrument and no longer plays . 
in contrast , camille had almost given the violin , years earlier . 
however , with the aid of her manager , she has progressed to being almost one of the world's finest , successfully submerging herself to her playing . 
during the course of the movie , we see both characters evolve as they struggle to meet the challenge of their new emotions . 
stephane attempts to remain unchanged . 
however , we do see subtle hints of his transformation . 
one of the most obvious is when he defeats maxime in squash . 
the development of all of the characters , many of which is not included in this synopsis , is incredible . 
american movies , with rare exceptions , have not and i would daresay cannot approach foreign films in character development . 
in its essence , this movie is about the development and growth of the characters , camille and stephane . 
the portrayal of all the other characters in the movie , including a death , is to further the development of camille's and stepahne's characters . 
i am not sure why berardinelli says , " at times it becomes difficult to determine whether stephane should be pitied or vilified , and it is to auteuil's credit that he manages to maintain this uncertainty . " 
this movie is not about judging stephane's actions as being right or wrong , but about viewing their growth and accepting the characters as who they are . 
i find the ending appropriate ; unfortunately , i found the last ten minutes which led up to the final scene to be very unfulfilling . 
this portion of the film is where the " sense of closure " could have been successfully accomplished . 
unfortunately , there is a hurried and almost a soap opera-type surge of emotions from all of the characters . 
while ravel may not be quite as accomplished as schubert or mozart , ravel has his day in this film . 
the synergism of the tension of ravel's music and tension on the screen is the best i have ever seen . 
the directing in this movie is wonderful . 
the actors and actresses are excellent , each playing their part with great sincerity and warmth . 
emmanuelle beart's personality is beautiful . 
and needless to say , i must say that emmanuelle beart , herself , is beautiful . 
besides the near ending , the only other criticism of the movie which i have is that the movie is almost too cerebral . 
i almost left with the sense little happened because almost all the changes which occur in the movie happen in deep in their psyches and little in their personalities or the situations which they end as part of . 
the one question which i am left with is while they have accepted their lot , has their attitude towards love changed ? 
i have several possibilities which i believe the movie hints at , but i am unsure of which the director is espousing . 
in summary , this movie is solely about the character growth of two characters who almost develop a relationship . 
in the process , we see their attitude towards life and other people . 
in itself , i do not believe un coeur is a complicated movie . 
where it does become complicated is when we juxtapose the scenes of the movie into the greater walk of life where we , as americans , have preconceived american notions of relationship , love , and people . 
i do wonder how the movie translates when viewed within its native french culture . 
however , i , bringing my american preconceptions , enjoyed the film . 
i would welcome any comments about this movie from any who have seen it . 

there have been merchant-ivory costume dramas with more of a pulse than " the mod squad , " a self-consciously " hip " cinematic rendering of the old tv series still looked upon fondly by so many baby-boomers . 
well , said " squad " certainly won't be a pleasant viewing experience for them or anybody else , maybe even the teen target audience the movie has been geared towards . 
a contemporary take on this decidedly '70s show doesn't exactly seem unwarranted , but one wonders if the mold it accumulated while waiting on the shelf didn't transform into a full-blown case of botulism . 
how curious that the film begins by defining both mod and squad , insisting that the latter is a group of people working together and then contradicting this definition by keeping its titular trio apart for a sizeable chunk of the running time . 
they are julie , pete and linc , reformed delinquents working undercover for the lapd ( exposition put out of the way so fast that you're likely to be lost from the opening moments on ) , and they are respectively played by claire danes , giovanni ribisi and omar epps , talented actors each deserving of better than this . 
their plight involves standard cop-corruption stuff , as our would-be protagonists catch wind of an internal cover-up after their superior ( reliable dennis farina , one of the best things here and gone so quickly ) gets killed and framed for drug trafficking . 
they pout a lot and eventually get cracking to expose this convoluted conspiracy using surveillance tactics that would impress the hardy boys and linda tripp but few others . 
when you're supposed to be asking , " what's going to happen next ? " , 
you'll instead entertain thoughts like " who are these people and why should i care ? " 
or " aren't thrillers supposed to contain thrills ? " 
not that danes , epps and ribisi don't give it a shot . 
danes can do the troubled teen thing in her sleep , as evidenced by " my so-called life , " but she's saddled with a mysterious-boyfriend ( josh brolin ) subplot so see-through you begin to seriously question her so-called intelligence . 
ditto for ribisi's ( " saving private ryan " ) looney loose cannon , though at least he performs with a wild-and-crazy vigor that occasionally demands attention . 
but epps - poor epps . 
epps ( " higher learning " ) is so short-changed he's reduced to literally waiting around for a bad guy to chase him . 
all this sloppiness can be attributed to the screenwriters , one of whom , scott silver , is also the director . 
they must think that if they dress up their stupid story in such spiffy trappings ( the look of the film is really quite impressive ) , it'll somehow pay off , but this " mod squad " plods anyway . 
characters are non-existent ; present are just some good-looking young things modeling cool levis and cooler attitudes . 
plot hardly escapes confusing convention . 
and the one genre element you'd think would be show up in generous portions - a few nifty explosions , some fights , any kind of action whatsoever - only rarely makes it to this dull gabfest . 
all those quick to put down last month's inept but serviceable " my favorite martian " update need to take a step back . 
here's a small-to-big-screen translation that really should've stayed in its former incarnation , " mod " or not . 

kolya is one of the richest films i've seen in some time . 
zdenek sverak plays a confirmed old bachelor ( who's likely to remain so ) , who finds his life as a czech cellist increasingly impacted by the five-year old boy that he's taking care of . 
though it ends rather abruptly-- and i'm whining , 'cause i wanted to spend more time with these characters-- the acting , writing , and production values are as high as , if not higher than , comparable american dramas . 
this father-and-son delight-- sverak also wrote the script , while his son , jan , directed-- won a golden globe for best foreign language film and , a couple days after i saw it , walked away an oscar . 
in czech and russian , with english subtitles . 

mars attacks ! 
 ( 1996 ) - c : jack nicholson , glenn close , annette bening , martin short , danny devito , rod steiger , pierce brosnan , sarah jessica parker , michael j . fox , jim brown , pam grier , joe don baker , natalie portman , christina applegate , lisa marie , tom jones . 
this is director tim burton's finest film to date . 
many will compare this tale of martians who invade earth to independence day , but even though the stories are similar , they really are two distinctly different films . 
however as a whole , mars attacks is much more entertaining than id4 , and i loved id4 . 
you really have to be in the right frame of mind to enjoy this film . 
it is completely wacked-out and unlike anything you've ever seen . 
once the silly tone of the film is set , it's easy to just sit back and throw logic out the window because logic and comedy just don't mix . 
the plot is simple : martians invade the earth . 
but it's different than any other invasion film . 
usually it's the evil aliens versus the heroic humans . 
this time however , it's the goofy aliens versus the equally goofy humans . 
the martians , who are all computer generated , are just about the funniest things i've seen in a long time . 
they look funny , they move funny , and their " language " is hilarious . 
and about the special effects . 
the effects in mars attacks ! 
are just about the most flawless ones i've seen to date . 
the computer animation of the martians combined with the goofy personalities they are given makes them seem 100% real . 
there are just a couple of scenes that don't work , mainly those involving sarah jessica parker and pierce brosnan on board an alien ship . 
also , glenn close overacts tremendously in her ( thankfully ) very limited screen time , so much so that i actually applauded silently when her character meets her demise . 
but there are many big laughs in the film , as i said , if you are in the right mood . 
could it have been funnier ? 
certainly . 
was it funny enough ? 
yes . 
was i entertained ? 
absolutely . 
on a personal note , i'd like to thank whomever cast rod steiger ( my favorite actor ) in the film as war-crazy general decker . 
finally , after many very small parts in direct to video garbage and minor tv roles , steiger is back on the big screen in a real movie that many people will see . 
while he's not given the type of role that you can give a real " performance " in , he does the job well and has some good lines of dialogue . 
the preview audience i saw the film with really seemed to enjoy him . 

this three hour movie opens up with a view of singer/guitar player/musician/composer frank zappa rehearsing with his fellow band members . 
all the rest displays a compilation of footage , mostly from the concert at the palladium in new york city , halloween 1979 . 
other footage shows backstage foolishness , and amazing clay animation by bruce bickford . 
the performance of " titties and beer " played in this movie is very entertaining , with drummer terry bozzio supplying the voice of the devil . 
frank's guitar solos outdo any van halen or hendrix i've ever heard . 
bruce bickford's outlandish clay animation is that beyond belief with zooms , morphings , etc . and actually , it doesn't even look like clay , it looks like meat . 

full metal jacket , very much like every other hard-hitting film about the vietnam war , is an shocking , emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in america . 
this film is more like platoon than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man ( private joker , played by matthew modine ) during his tour in the vietnam war . 
however , full metal jacket gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before : boot camp . 
these sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film , even though i found the later portions to be equally stunning . 
as in platoon , full metal jacket gets off to a quick start . 
the opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits , which is getting their heads shaved . 
from there , they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing sergeant hartman , played extremely well by the former drill instructor r . lee ermey . 
apparently , the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies , because ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations . 
private joker gets off on the wrong foot with the sergeant , as does the large bodied private leonard lawrence ( vincent d'onofrio ) , whom is dubbed 'gomer pyle' by sgt . 
hartman . 
the film is continually narrated by private joker , in which he explains his visions on what is going on . 
the entire corps , although repeatedly hammered by sgt . 
hartman , continues on . 
private pyle , however , seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor . 
he continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation , and it basically does not stop . 
that is , until sgt . 
hartman comes up with a new plan . 
he will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-marines for pyle's goof-ups , even after joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can . 
pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits , and things take a turn for the worst . 
pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally , physically , and mentally cut out for the life of a marine . 
after graduation , joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war , which is his service . 
he is not a member of the infantry , and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat . 
when he sets out on a documenting mission , this question becomes very clear from the start . 
joker joins up with a platoon , along with his hometown friend cowboy ( arliss howard ) , and follows their everyday actions , interviewing and filmming them along the way . 
he also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight , or die . 
again , as in the tradition of vietnam war films , full metal jacket can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not . 
a few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide . 
full metal jacket succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in vietnam , as have others in the past . 
this film , in different ways , also can be viewed as more powerful than others . 
that , again , is up for debate and depends on your opinion . 
one thing is for sure , however ; no one ever wants to experience the absolute hell that these soldiers are subjected to . 
unfortunately , many did . 

denzel washington is among the many actors this holiday season to give very impressive milestone performances . 
this perhaps may be washington's very best to date . 
he joins matt damon and jim carrey in having the talent , this season , to become his character , copying mannerisms and personal styles perfectly . 
his very believable performance makes the long and uninteresting " the hurricane " a much better film than it actually is . 
when his rubin " hurricane " carter feels pain and is tormented by racism , he creates for the audience a great sense of sympathy , disgust , and maybe even some embarrassment from the fact that this is our very own country that is breaking laws to support silly prejudices . 
the horrific true events carter suffered from all of his life are slightly more disturbing and terrifying because they only took place a few decades ago . 
the powerful expressions of denzel washington alone , as his tortured carter , sum up the troubles of racism in america's history . 
he is that amazing . 
the problem with " the hurricane " is that when compared to washington , all of the other actors are not nearly as memorable in their roles . 
mainly because the script focuses so much on carter , that it leaves little interest or room for the other actors . 
this is , without a doubt , washington's movie but in order for any film to be completely satisfying , it must utilize everyone in the cast to their highest potential not just the stars . 
denzel washington is the only reason to see this film for his inspirational and very depressing tour de force performance . 
as rubin carter , we see a black man whose existence has been a punching bag for the white american court system . 
>from the age of eleven to twenty one he was sent to a juvenile prison for a crime he did not commit . 
then after a successful marriage and boxing career , he was harshly imprisoned again for life after being framed for a triple murder . 
carter's second term in prison seemed almost inevitable when faced off against jealous , powerful white men who refused to let him succeed . 
from these past experiences in jail , carter realized that he must make his case heard for all of america . 
after several court appeals , an autobiography , and many public marches for his freedom , carter remained locked in prison . 
it was not until a young black boy from brooklyn being educated in toronto read carter's book in the 1980's , that a serious battle for freedom took place . 
the young boy and his three canadian guardians decide to dedicate all of their time to the case until carter is released . 
the greatest scenes in the film are when carter begins to lose his mind after spending three months in isolation . 
washington really shows the breakdown of carter when after swearing he would never go to jail again , he is unfairly framed at the height of his innocent career . 
the devastation in washington's eyes show a man who has struggled to do the right thing his whole life only to be punished for it . 
in the hole , carter attempts to maintain emotional balance but he cannot . 
his anger is heightened to a point of no control . 
we see multiple carters , a violent angry one , a silent passive one , and a mediator . 
we see an emotional boxing match inside carter's head . 
from this point in the hole to the end of the film , this fight continues . 
it is very apparent at times which side is winning the battle and in some scenes there is a direct switch from angry to caring or the opposite . 
when carter sees that white canadians want to help him get out of prison , the angry carter at first erupts . 
white people have been trying to hurt him his whole life , this reminder leads to anger in his head . 
however , as the film continues and the canadians continue to help carter we see the calm side him . 
he realizes that society is changing . 
that racism is decreasing and now carter wants to leave jail immediately and become a part of this world . 
very rarely have i seen such determination to perfect his role as washington has done here . 
if only the other actors had this same determination . 
dan hedaya , ridiculously plays the man who sends carter to prison twice by forcing witnesses to lie and switching evidence around . 
it felt like his character was taken straight out of a " scooby doo " episode ; he would have gotten away with it if it wasn't for those annoying little kids . 
 " the kids " in this film are the three canadians who are terribly underused making their relationship with carter underdeveloped and unbelievable . 
the lawyers who help release carter also are underused , as is clancy brown as a kind prison guard ( the complete opposite of his character in " shawshank redemption " ) . 
there is a great amount of talent in this supporting cast but it just never appears . 
hedaya was superb in " clueless , " same for david paymer in " get shorty , " harris yulin in " ghostbusters " and liev schreiber in " the daytrippers . " 
it is a mystery how this many actors signed on to such shallow roles . 
on the other hand , it is absolutely no mystery why denzel washington agreed to play rubin " hurricane " carter . 
this role is about as far off from shallow as you can get . 

even though i have the utmost respect for richard dreyfuss as an actor , his presence in a motion picture does not guarantee any particular level of quality . 
like everyone else , dreyfuss has bills to pay , so he occasionally accepts big paychecks for prominent roles in bad movies . 
consequently , while his career highlights include jaws , close encounters of the third kind , stakeout , and tin men , his resume is dotted with titles like moon over parador , let it ride , and now krippendorf's tribe . 
let me start out by saying that krippendorf's tribe is occasionally funny ( although never riotously so ) , but that's about its only asset . 
the best word to describe this film is " asinine . " 
the target audience would appear to be recent nursery school graduates if not for the numerous sexual innuendoes , which are aimed at someone going through puberty . 
krippendorf's tribe tries to be a zany , off-the-wall comedy , but the film makers have forgotten three important rules . 
the first is that some minimal level of plot credibility has to exist .