there's good news and bad news about mulan . 
the positive is that disney has found a happy medium between the heavy-handedness of pocahontas and the hunchback of notre dame and the childishness of hercules . 
on the other hand , the studio is pulling out all the stops on plot cliches and cheap laughs , several steps down from the days of the little mermaid and beauty and the beast . 
but mulan is a step in the right direction and disney's best animated feature since the lion king . 
after giving native americans a turn in pocahontas , disney has decided to turn a movie over to the asians . 
mulan is set in feudal china and features the ever-popular heroine who marches to a different drum and wants to do more with her life than get married . 
that's what we find out when young mulan ( voice of ming- na wen ) screws up her appointment with the matchmaker by letting a rogue cricket splash coffee all over her . 
cartoons . . . 
meanwhile , word comes from the emporer that one man from every family must join the army and help fight the huns . 
since mulan's a girl , that means her decrepit old father must go . 
she pleads with the soldiers to have mercy on dear old dad , but that kind of groveling and desperation brings shame on her family . 
that's chinese culture for you . . . 
so imagine how embarrassed the family is the next day when they find mulan has stolen her father's uniform and sword and run off to join the army in his place . 
the movie in a nutshell is about the stuggles of being a woman in the army . 
it should have been called g . i . 
chang . 
mulan calls on her ancestors for help . 
they decide to summon the large stone dragon in the backyard to protect her , but a mini dragon named mushu screws it up . 
voiced by eddie murphy , mushu continues the tradition of cute talking animal sidekicks who do more slapstick harm than good for their human charges . 
murphy's performance is a direct descendent of robin williams in aladdin -- lots of wisecracks and ad-libs and even an introductory song about how much fun they're going to have . 
you ain't never had a friend like mushu . 
speaking of songs , mulan doesn't have too many of them , which is a plus with a story like this . 
disney songs about war probably wouldn't go over too well ( " heigh ho , heigh ho , it's off to war i go . . . " ) , and the ones they do have aren't memorable . 
the best of the bunch , sad to say , is " be a man , " the requisite basic training montage song . 
yes , even in medieval china , they had to run through that web of car tires before they were ready for battle . 
sung by donnie osmond ( a bad sign if ever there was one ) , " be a man " accompanies footage of mulan's platoon going from screw-ups to heroes . 
it makes me wonder , has there ever been a musical montage in a movie that's ended badly ? 
i only wish real-life problems could be solved in two minutes with a peppy montage . 
for the curious , mulan does pass for a man in the army despite looking like a girl . 
all she does to transform herself is cut her hair to a sexy shoulder-length , talk macho and slap guys on the butt , as was male custom a thousand years ago in china . 
the deception fools everyone but the audience , who thinks she might be able to pass for a 12-year-old boy , at best . 
but she does manage to strike the biggest blows to the hun army , led by a big , evil-eyed attilla-looking monster . 
as a villain , the head of the huns is menacing , evil and entirely forgettable . 
i saw the movie yesterday and i don't remember the man's name . 
otherwise , mulan is a good movie . 
the animation of the characters themselves isn't as rich as it could and should be , but there are some amazing battlefield shots . 
eddie murphy pulls off some good one-liners , as do other star voices like harvey fierstein and pat morita , the quintessential asian movie star . 
hell , george " mr . sulu " takei does a voice in mulan . 
you get the sense disney said to themselves , " alright , let's get out there and find us some chinese americans in hollywood . 
who can you think of ? " 
 " well , there's mr . myagi . . . " 
 " good . " 
 " and mr . sulu . " 
 " perfect . 
we've got ourselves a movie now . " 
soon disney really _will_ be able to paint with all the colors of the wind . 

there's more to a quilt than fabric and thread--each patchwork design has its own unique story ( or stories ) to tell . 
in how to make an american quilt , the first hollywood release from australian director jocelyn moorhouse ( proof ) , we come to understand how the tales of the seven makers imbue their creation with passion and vitality . 
all the sorrows , joys , longings , sufferings , and loves of these women are sewn into their quilt and , as their bittersweet memories are given expression , one young woman applies these lessons of the past to her own uncertain future . 
motion pictures are filled with male bonding rituals ; how to make an american quilt presents a distinctly feminine alternative . 
the " quilting bee " consists of seven members : sisters gladys ( ann bancroft ) and hy ( ellen burstyn ) ; sophia ( lois smith ) , a woman known for frightening children ; emma ( jean simmons ) , the timid wife of a perpetually unfaithful man ; constance ( kate nelligan ) , who has been having an affair with emma's husband ; anna ( maya angelou ) , the leader of the group ; and marianna ( alfre woodard ) , anna's daughter . 
the project they're busy with is the wedding quilt for hy's granddaughter , finn ( winona ryder ) , who has just become engaged . 
she's spending the summer with hy and gladys , and away from her fiance , to decide whether a lifelong commitment is really what she wants , and whether it's better to marry a friend or a lover . 
one of the greatest pleasures of how to make an american quilt comes from watching an array of fine performances by an impressive ensemble cast . 
from winona ryder , ann bancroft , ellen burstyn , and maya angelou to minor players like rip torn , claire danes , and kate capshaw , this film is overflowing with realized talent . 
the performances are good enough , in fact , to cover up many of the script's weaknesses . 
how to make an american quilt is basically an unremarkable , if affecting , tale of love across the generations--a sort of truncated american version of the joy luck club , with a dash of fried green tomatoes added . 
there are probably too many characters . 
so , instead of really getting to know a few of them , we are presented with quick glimpses into a single defining event in each of their lives . 
we learn about the root of the smoldering resentment between gladys and hy , and are told the reasons why emma stays with her husband and sophia is so irascible . 
there are other episodes as well : the love of anna's life , marianna's soul mate , and a look at the reasons why constance entered into an affair with her friend's husband . 
the sum total of these tales is meant to provide the framework for finn's story : whether to go forward with her marriage or dally with a hunky stranger . 
there is no emotional epiphany in how to make an american quilt . 
the stories are all well-told , but it's difficult to really connect with the characters--their moments pass so quickly . 
while we certainly feel something for each of the eight principals , our emotional investment is tenuous . 
there isn't enough depth to pull the viewer in all the way , and many of the personalities and relationships feel half- formed , like a quilt with patches missing . 
to put it bluntly , while i enjoyed watching this film , it didn't " do much " for me . 
on the whole , how to make an american quilt is a nicely-understated drama that has a lot to say about love , passion , and monogamy in relationships . 
finn's segment is by far the most compelling , because she's the focal point : her actions are shaped by everyone else's experiences . 
the other patches of this american quilt are successful only to varying degrees . 
if there's a disappointment here , it's that the script doesn't have more resonance , but the privilege of seeing such a fine cast in top form allows a viewer to enjoy this picture even if the story is somewhat conventional . 

it rocks-actually , lots of rocks fly at us or from us , in slow or fast motion , at several points in the film . 
they seem like dangerous rocks because they kind of twirl through the air instead of just propelling forward , and when they land-once in a while , when we need a break from the space sequences-they cause damage enough to destroy the chrysler building and the like . 
 ( nary a mention of these apocalyptic events is made after they occur . ) 
they also just might be the most interesting element of armageddon , a steroid user's answer to deep impact . 
bruce willis stars as harry stamper , a famed oil-driller commissioned by the white house and nasa to stop a giant asteroid before it travels beyond " zero barrier " and destroys our planet . 
why an oil driller ? 
they require someone experience with deep-core mining to plant a nuclear missile into said asteroid . 
 ( in one unintentionally ( ? ) 
hilarious sequence , nasa asks harry to inspect a deep-core driller they built based on his blueprints ; it is poorly constructed-harry criticizes almost every aspect of it . 
we trust nasa to build space shuttles ? ) 
harry assembles the obligatory " ragtag " bunch of " cowboys " , including a blond guy , a fat guy , a black guy , a wiseass , and the man who is sleeping with his daughter ( affleck ) . 
once they reach space , we experience sequence after sequence of something going wrong-perhaps the fact that they sent a bunch of nincompoops into outer space has something to do with it ; i cannot count the number of times they almost fail the mission on all my fingers and toes . 
whether or not they save the day , i will not reveal . 
nor will you care .