tom dicillo directs this superficial comedy about superficial people in superficial careers , all searching for deeper meaning . 
however , they won't find much meaning in the real blonde , and not enough real humor , either . 
joe ( matthew modine ) is a struggling actor , or he claims to be one , even though he has no credits under his belt . 
his girlfriend , mary ( catherine keener ) has no pretensions about her career : she's a makeup artist , working for the eccentric fashion photographer blair ( marlo thomas ) and supermodel of the month , sahara ( bridgette wilson ) . 
sahara , who has acquired a new age spirituality from repeated viewing of the little mermaid , has an on-again , off-again relationship with joe's best friend , bob ( maxwell caulfield ) . 
however , bob has gotten his biggest break yet : a starring role on a soap opera opposite the beautiful kelly ( daryl hannah ) , who may be that illusive woman he's always pursued : a real blonde . 
there are some moments of good humor in the real blonde , but not enough . 
the best stuff is in throwaway details in the background , such as sahara's perfume ads : " depression - it's not just a state of mind " . 
but to find humor in the superficiality of models and actors is to shoot fish in a barrel . 
and , unfortunately , the film's forays outside the realm of comedy are pathetic . 
take for example the film's framing device of an old lady and her dog . 
the story serves absolutely no purpose , makes little sense , and is completely tangential to the main plotlines of the movie . 
matthew modine and catherine keener have the most sympathetic characters in the film , but they're stuck in the most boring plotlines . 
modine whines and complains and would be completely pathetic if he was matched against someone stronger than elizabeth berkley , who appears as another struggling actor . 
keener's character has a stronger edge , but the insult self-defense class ( taught by denis leary , no less ) she is stuck in makes little sense . 
the movie's running time is under two hours , but it seems like it is well over it . 
there's just not enough humor to speed things along , and not enough meaning to propel any drama . 

in zoolander , the world's most successful , influential and intellectually-challenged male model derek zoolander wonders , " is there more to life than being really really really good looking ? " 
obviously , the film's creator and star ben stiller asked a similar question when crafting a feature-length movie out of his hilarious vh1/vogue fashion awards short-film subject : can there be more to this film than being really really really silly ? 
no , of course not , and it never aspires to be anything more . 
much like derek , zoolander is a sweet simpleton of a movie . 
it's not complex in either its social commentary or its comedy , and it never produces any gut-busting laughs ( except maybe a scene when derek's model roommates all die in a tragic " gasoline fight " accident -- a riotously funny take-off of tommy hilfiger ads ) . 
but it has a satisfying handful of strong chuckles , wild characters and performances , and mildly harsh potshots at the fashion industry to keep you amused . 
better yet , this exaggerated version of the original three-minute skit is only blown out to an efficient 95 minutes -- just enough time to string together its goofball plot without exhausting the gag . 
zoolander opens with several fashion bigwigs plotting to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , since he wants to abolish child labor in his country and thus driving up their costs . 
fashion designer and criminal mastermind jacobim mugatu ( will ferrell ) drafts a plan to brainwash the dumbest fashion model to carry out the evil deed . 
enter derek , whose career is slumping as newcomer hansel ( owen wilson ) takes the spotlight . 
on the trail of mugatu's plot is time magazine reporter matilda jeffries ( stiller's real-life wife christine taylor ) , and she's hoping to use mugatu's pawn derek to ultimately foil the scheme . 
much like the austin powers films , zoolander relies heavily on the strength of the talent involved , and this zany comedy features some of the funniest people in entertainment today . 
wilson is hysterical as the young , vain hansel . 
ferrell nearly steals the show from everyone as the flamboyant , freakish mugatu in the same way dr . evil upstages everyone in austin powers . 
jerry stiller -- ben's dad who's best remembered as frank costanza of seinfeld -- makes a priceless turn as derek's slimy agent maury ballstein . 
even ben stiller show alum andy dick shows up as a deranged , large-assed masseuse . 
as for ben stiller , it seems his derek has one gag : he's stupid , which plays out in some uproarious one-liners . 
unfortunately , taylor seems out of place and out of her league here . 
maybe it's just because i can't stop seeing her as marcia brady ( who she played in both brady movies ) , making her unbelievable as a dowdy , brainy plain jane who hasn't had sex in two years . 
she leaves me pining for the cynicism of janeane garofolo , who would've added real comic substance to the flimsy role . 
while zoolander is hardly highbrow , its screwball humor is welcome during these trying times , especially considering the gross lack of decent pickings in the theaters these days . 
zoolander's no masterpiece , but a very worthy distraction . 

i can imagine how good krippendorf's tribe must have looked on paper . 
it does not surprise me in the least that a group of extremely talented actors , led by the great richard dreyfuss and a good director ( todd holland ) , all wanted to make this film . 
in fact , it is only the expertise by which this excruciatingly bad script has been executed that keeps me from suggesting that you stay as far away from krippendorf's tribe as possible . 
in retrospect , i can imagine how bad this film could have been . 
i shudder at the possibilities of awfulness had it starred an actor less able than dreyfuss . 
dreyfuss plays james krippendorf , an anthropologist who is granted $100 , 000 by his university to find an undiscovered tribe in new guinea . 
halfway into his two-year expedition , his wife ( apparently ) dies . 
i say apparently because when or how she dies is never truly established . 
later , we find out that much of the grant money was spent on big-screen tvs and other such pleasures . 
so , when krippendorf finds out what happens to professors who do not use their grant money wisely , he decides to construct an elaborate lie . 
he makes his own tribe , using his three children as actors in a video . 
he simply makes up certain incredible facts about this tribe ( which he calls the shelmickedmu ) . 
audiences at krippendorf's lectures are amazed by his findings that the shelmickedmu practice circumcision . 
and proof that the typical family unit is led by a single father is truly amazing to the anthropological community . 
like all films like this , the lie becomes more and more complex , and the suspense is generated with us wondering at what point it is all going to fall out from under our hero . 
dreyfuss is a funny , talented man , and he is funny in this film . 
he has lots of positive energy and , unlike most comical actors , really manages to play people like this realistically . 
this film also requires a lot of physical humor that i've never seen dreyfuss perform , and he does a great job . 
jenna elfman , who plays veronica mecilli , a scientist who wants in on krippendorf's work , is also very funny and appealing here . 
and the kid actors are great , as well . 
but we're talking about the script from hell . 
this is one of those stories that requires such extreme suspension of disbelief that they might as well have established that the story just takes place in an alternate universe where things like this can happen . 
but the ridiculousness of the story is not really what is so bad about it . 
all the cliches and the irritating plot devices could have easily been overcome by dreyfuss and crew . 
no , the script is plagued with so many clueless stereotypes and mean-spirited characters that i was in disbelief as i watched . 
furthermore , the manor in which all of this material is covered up is truly shameless . 
take , for instance , the scene in which krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them having sex . 
they get all decked out in the tribe getup , complete with paint to darken their skin . 
krippendorf does this because he needs footage of the mating rituals of his tribe . 
now , i saw this scene coming from a mile away , but i said to myself , " no , that would be far too tasteless . 
there's no way they'll do that . . . oh 
god ! " 
they did do it . 
it's there . 
i was almost more appalled by the fact that this didn't bother the other audience members with whom i saw this film . 
i found it deplorable . 
and when krippendorf is forced to admit that he did it , he simply apologizes without the slightest hint of conviction in his voice . 
the film is filled with scenes like these . 
they not only insult the audience , but they insult the types of people that the film portrays . 
it would take some truly professional work to create videos convincing enough to fool an entire community of scientists , yet krippendorf does it easily in an afternoon . 
and watching dreyfuss stumble over a completely unprepared speech is funny and entertaining , but i think that most members of the on-screen audience would be able to see that he is making everything up as he goes . 
if i were an anthropologist , this film would insult me immensely . 
moving right along , the film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes . 
sure , dreyfuss dressing up like a chief is really funny , and it allows for some entertaining scenes , but the heart of this material is deeply clueless as to the themes and thoughts that it provokes . 
it is because of dreyfuss as an actor that i was able to watch this film . 
his character here is not a good subject for a film because he is a shameless liar , and never once does he show any kind of penance for what he does . 
i suppose it was interesting to see the formula defied in this case , but for the purposes of good taste , i would have expected something . 
no , this man sets a terrible example for his kids and colleagues , and the writer of the film ( charlie peters ) didn't include a single scene in which krippendorf takes his kids aside and tells them that what he is doing is very bad . 
in fact , it's his eldest daughter that frequently tells him that he is doing the wrong thing , and he continually shrugs off her warnings . 
i suppose it's important to admit that this is a funny film . 
dreyfuss and elfman , and many of the contrived and insulting scenes , add up to a picture that is anything but boring . 
and if you're less serious than i , you probably will enjoy it . 
i , however , can't get past these elements . 
krippendorf's tribe is being marketed as a family comedy , but this is the kind of film that teaches the kids of our society faulty lessons that they shouldn't be learning . 
with a little more insight into its story and themes , this could have been a good movie . 

for the first reel of girls town , you just can't get over lili taylor . 
is it possible to remain unperturbed that a woman of this age is playing a high school student ? 
harder still , can you avoid astonishment at how perfect she is in the part ? 
with the sure , showy expertise of a de niro , taylor imbues unwed mother patti with all the faux fuck-you confidence she can muster . 
it's a deeply felt , dead-on performance , and by the halfway point you've forgiven taylor her own maturity . 
for all its verite pretenses , girls town is less about a bunch of high-schoolers than it is about a movie director and a cadre of writer-performers examining their own feelings about rape , relationships , and american womanhood . 
the movie's opening scenes sketch an easy friendship between a group of four smart/sassy high school outsiders on the verge of graduation : patti , angela ( bruklin harris ) , emma ( anna grace ) , and nikki ( aunjanue ellis ) . 
but about 10 minutes into the film , we get word that nikki has swallowed a fistful of pills and bowed out of life . 
the remaining girls manage to smug nikki's diary out of her grieving mother's home , and page through it at patti's place , investigating the root of nikki's despair . 
what they find is cruel and galvanizing -- nikki had been raped by an editor at a newspaper where she interned , and was privately questioning the sanity and value of a world where such a thing could happen . 
shell-shocked by the truth of the matter , the three girls begin to talk among themselves and come to a realization about their own lives . 
emma says she was raped last year on a date with a football player . 
patti's barely sympathetic , wondering what the hell emma thought she was doing with her shirt off in a jock's car . 
and anyway , patti's had her own share of guys who wouldn't take no for an answer . 
pained , acrimonious debate ensues as the trio grow more and more angry -- angry about the impossibility of saying no , and angry with themselves for being weak , for being naive , for putting up with it . 
 " why do we put up with it ? " 
emma finally asks , once the argument has reached a fever pitch . 
 " we try to talk about it , and look what happens . 
we fight for 20 minutes . " 
there's the admirable crux of this picture . 
girls town is a political film , in that it calls for action . 
but it's incomplete-it's never quite sure how to justify that action , or what form it should take . 
the trio become crusaders for their right to dignity , and it's surely one of this year's most stirring movie moments when emma lobs a concrete block through the passenger-side window of that damn jock's car ( doing the right thing ? ) . 
they hang out in the bathroom , chatting incessantly and scrawling slogans and naming names on the door to a toilet stall . 
 " subvert the patriarchy , " emma writes , and then starts a hall of shame list underneath that other students begin to contribute to . 
the girls silence their hecklers , take revenge on the deadbeat father of patti's child , and eventually come face-to-face with nikki's tormentor . 
still , the movie has a desperately unfinished quality , and none of these subsequent exploits is particularly satisfying . 
 ( you keep waiting for someone to call the cops on these brazen girls , but nobody thinks of it . ) 
perhaps searching for a resolution missing from the material at hand , the film borrows its epigraphs from audre lorde and queen latifah ( " who you callin' a bitch ? " ) . 
the points are well taken , but they should have been unnecessary . 
long on characterization but a little short on story , girls town is less than it could have been , and too self-congratulatory for my own taste . 
director jim mckay is best known as a consort of r . e . m . 's 
michael stipe ( he directed the nearly unwatchable tourfilm for that band ) , and girls town is his first foray into feature filmmaking . 
the movie was created and scripted by committee , but mckay and his lead performers had to shoot on a shoestring when , predictably , the group couldn't secure funding . 
then again , girls town on a budget would hardly be the same film . 
the movie's slapdash quality is key to its significance . 
truth be told , all three of the leads look too wise for high school , but that's ok -- there's a once-removed quality to their fine , spontaneous performances , as the women take a very skillful look back at the girls they once were , the girls they wish they had been , or some combination . 
for all its flaws , this one gets extra points for having its uncertain head and heart in the same noble place . 

the happy bastard's quick movie review 
analyze this 
how does one do a comedy focused on the mob ? 
well , a few years ago , there was a sly little comedy called the freshman , which had marlon brando doing a romp of a send-up of his famous don corleone character and , recently , the utterly stupid ( in a bad way ) movie mafia ! 
failed to really get the joke . 
this time around , however , warner bros . may have gotten it right with analyze this , a movie that hits its targets more than it misses . . . and 
for plenty of reasons . 
the story goes like this . 
a mobster ( robert deniro ) finds himself receiving several panic attacks as of late , fueled by the stress of an upcoming mobster meeting and a near-death following a drive-by shooting . 
it's these attacks that prompt him to hire a psychiatrist ( billy crystal ) who's mostly reluctant to take the mobster's case for two reasons . 
first , of course , he's a mobster , but secondly , he's trying to get married and enjoy a quiet honeymoon with his wife ( lisa kudrow ) and kid . 
and , of course , he can't rest worth for a moment because the mobster's goons are always needing the shrink for something , be it a quick consultation or dream analyzation . 
fortunately , the movie is played out for plenty of laughs . 
director harold ramis ( who also helmed the comedy multiplicity , which wasn't half bad ) keeps the tone peppy and light , even if it's sometimes sprinkled by slight dramatic moments ( shootings can't always be taken for laughs , you know ) . 
deniro does some of his finest comic work since the king of comedy , giving off a somewhat similar performance to his role in goodfellas , but with a bit of a lighter heart . 
 ( a scene where he tries to display his anger over the phone and fails miserably is hilarious . ) 
crystal plays an excellent straight man to deniro's character , uplifting him from such bombs as father's day and my giant . 
kudrow is also a hoot as crystal's wife-to-be , who's on the verge of a breakdown thanks to deniro's presence . 
is the movie perfect ? 
not really , thanks to a simplistic ending and some slightly wasted moments with a character portrayed by chazz palminteri ( he's a comic actor , too , come on , give him some more ! ) , but it is an enjoyable romp that lets deniro do something different but same for a change , taking his dramatic act to a new field of comedy . 
kudos to crystal and kudrow for not just making it his show , either . 
line of the movie : crystal : " when you said you needed family therapy , this is not the family i had in mind ! " 

roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin and keaton . 
this italian film star , best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther , has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust . 
but benigni's life is beautiful ( la vita e bella ) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story of familial love , devotion and sacrifice . 
the movie starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni's guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore . 
like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him , most notably the almost-forgotten harry langdon , benigni's guido has a childlike innocence . 
he ignores the growing anti-semitism of the fascist government . 
instead , guido ardently falls in love and persues dora , a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official . 
in benigni's tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate - yet slapstick - encounter . 
guido wins dora . 
they marry . 
fast forward about five years . 
guido , dora , and their 5-year-old son , giosue ? ( giorgio cantarini ) are a happy family . 
guido has finally fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore . 
but racial and anti-semitic tensions are on the rise in italy , and guido has determined to do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities . 
the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp . 
here , guido must use all his skill and imagination not only to shield his son , but to keep him from being exterminated . 
it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched . 
for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror , the pain , the unimaginable suffering of a schindler's list . 
true , many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over , and most were not sent to the death camps , but to work camps where they were used as slave labor . 
unlike steven spielberg , benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust . 
his story is about family and the lengths a parent will go to protect a child . 
for guido , to save his son , transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game . 
giosue ? must follow the rules without question to amass 1 , 000 points . 
the winner takes home a tank . 
therefore , guido tells him , he must remain hidden in the barracks . 
he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him . 
guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates . 
guido , lying that he understands german and can translate for his fellow prisoners , instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive . 
throughout their imprisonment , guido's quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm's way . 
ultimately , the allies rescue the camp . 
in a poignant scene , giosue ? comes out of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound . 
the boy goes wide-eyed with wonderment and delight , thinking he has won the game . 
the price for his victory is most high . 
benigni has succeeded in using the blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell , a ray of hope and salvation can penetrate the darkness . 
life is beautiful is a fantasy , a fable . 
it is not to be taken as a record of the holocaust . 
those who object to it are missing its point . 
and that is simply where there is hope , where there is life and where there is love , the spark of humanity will never be extinguished . 
committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 

stallone attempts to 'act' in this cop drama . 
the film is set in a neighbourhood pratically built by kietal , who's nephew ( played by michael rappaport ) is involved in a car crash and killing of two black youths . 
keital dosen't really want to get involved in anything , gets rid of rappaport , and stallone and de niro try to work out what the hell is going on . 
this film should be brilliant . 
it sounds like a great plot , the actors are first grade , and the supporting cast is good aswell , and stallone is attempting to deliver a good performance . 
however , it can't hold up . 
although the acting is fantastic ( even stallone isn't bad ) the directing and story is dull and long winded 
some scenes go on for too long , with nothing really happening in them . 
in fact , the only scenes that do work are action scenes , which i suspect stallone was trying to avoid . 
in this film , serious means dull . 
the dialogue is warbling , and basically just repeats the same points over and over , no matter who is delivering them . 
the plot , which has potential , is wasted , again just being cliched after a while . 
in fact , the only thing that does keep the film going is kietal and de niro , both delivering their usual good performances . 
however , stallone , although not given much to say , gives a good performance . 
however , it's not all that bad . 
as said above , the action scenes are well done . 
theres also a very good ending , which uses the cinemas sound system well . 
in fact , the last 10 minutes of this 2 hour film are one of the best endings of 1997 . 
if only the rest of the film was as good as the ending . 
cop land , then , turns out not to be a power house film , but a rather dull , and not every exciting film . 
hugely disappointing , and i can't really recommend it . 

as a revolutionary war hero in the patriot , mel gibson provides another macho man performance for hollywood audiences . 
you know the type : his shirt is always shredded , his face always scarred , he has a soft spot for his loved ones and a " to kill " list for his enemies . 
oscar-hungry director/executive producer roland emmerich did not intend to , but he made the stereotypical action hero for the 18th century . 
as gibson delivers lines like , " before this war is over , i am going to kill you , " schwarzenegger in commando or stallone in cobra immediately come to mind . 
oddly enough , the patriot is as much an epic three-hour-tear-fest like gladiator , as it is a ninety-minute guilty pleasure . 
at times absorbing , at others enjoyably insipid , this is good , bloody summer fun . 
i probably would have despised this film had it not been released over the july 4th weekend . 
some of the images are so zealously americanized ( the flag is used as a lifesaving weapon for example ) , that independence day seems the only appropriate time of year to wholeheartedly accept it . 
like emmerich's id4 , this is obvious propaganda where the americans are the hapless underdogs motivated by freedom for all . 
sure it's predictable and melodramatic , but for a moment after leaving the theater , i was dumbfounded with patriotism . 
and isn't that the point of the patriot ? 
gibson plays benjamin martin , the lionized french and indian war veteran , who , at the beginning of the film , is emotionally suffering after his loving wife passed away . 
he is left to father seven children at his south carolina estate along with black servants ( not slaves ! ) . 
as the revolutionary war rumbles miles away , martin swears to keep his family close and away from the battlefields . 
but when the oldest son enlists anyway and another is murdered by a wicked redcoat colonel ( jason isaacs ) , martin quickly decides to save the day ( or save the fate of america as presented by emmerich ) . 
forming a band of aggressive farmers and using guerilla tactics considered unfair in the art of war , martin becomes the number one target of the british army . 
the best parts of the patriot are the scenes in which martin and his rugged militia men outsmart the british armies left and right . 
every time the farmers attacked the unsuspecting enemy , to see the disbelief on british general cornwallis' ( tom wilkinson ) face was priceless entertainment . 
and as the tension gradually formulates with the running time , a final battle is inevitable . 
as for the numerous battle scenes , they are expertly done . 
clearer and more realistic than those of gladiator , the gruesome images are what give this film an r rating . 
you really get a sense of how warfare was performed during that time period . 
everything is performed in an orderly ( but still quite gory ) fashion - one side shoots , then the other side , then the remaining soldiers charge . 
it's organized , strategic and , according to martin , ineffective . 
there is a very interesting contrast between the traditional battle style and martin's take-no-prisoners method . 
what drives martin to these supposedly unfair actions , are the originally brutal tactics of colonel tavington . 
played wonderfully by jason isaacs , tavington is the type who loves to glare down from his horse at civilians , who nervously avoid eye contact . 
this character is viciously evil ; he kills women and children and then laughs about it on the way home ; even his eyes are evil . 
his portrayal has sparked some controversy in britain , some claim that he falsely represents his countrymen as " cowardly " and " sadistic . " 
i disagree with this accusation . 
tavington does not represent his country ; his unnecessary executions shock his own colleagues and even anger his general . 
besides tavington , the redcoats remain stick figures that are neither glorified nor patronized . 
and stick figures make the easiest enemies in these kinds of movies - why give the audience a reason to love the bad guys ? 
heck , why not spend the entire film glossing up the good guys ? 
the patriot is three hours of fictional fireworks . 
with an action hero seeking revenge and a comic book villain ready to take him down , it's a lethal weapon for the colonial times . 
god bless america ! 
and god bless the patriot ! 

martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me . 
because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks . 
as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something . 
i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story . 
no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies . 
for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other . 
there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on . 
or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building . 
again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing . 
i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking . 
but he simply uses the best tool for the job . 
it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward . 
the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet . 
the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . " 
his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story . 
 ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . ) 
we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old . 
his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama . 
a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before . 
several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items . 
the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own . 
the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama . 
scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk . 
before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation . 
sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice . 
either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader . 
>from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation . 
it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child . 
in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services . 
but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage . 
neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person . 
certain patterns take shape over the years . 
for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology . 
radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys . 
when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet . 
he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals . 
it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter . 
but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china . 
tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border . 
the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays . 
the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india . 
the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do . 
it just doesn't fit that mold . 
if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) . 
the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that . 
the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa . 
perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet . 
a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie . 
the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold . 
the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans . 
even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet . 
philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice . 
for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala . 
his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns . 
these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition . 
people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music . 
it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person . 
on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 

ingredients : starving artist lusting after a beautiful woman from his childhood 
synopsis : great expectations ( 1998 ) is a modernized version of a charles dickens novel . 
in the original charles dickens classic an orphan boy named pip learns about life through his friendship with an escaped convict , his relationship with a bitter old lady named miss havisham , and his hopeless lifetime infatuation with havisham's snobbish adopted daughter , estella . 
the gist of the story is that an anonymous benefactor sends pip to london for pip to become an upper class " gentleman . " 
pip leaves for london with " great expectations " to be groomed into a gentleman so that he can one day be classy enough to marry estella . 
but life has a way of complicating things . 
pip becomes an arrogant s . o . b . 
until he learns just who his secret benefactor is . 
in this new 1998 version of great expectations a poor florida lad named finn ( ethan hawke ) with a talent for drawing has an early memory of helping an escaped convict ( robert de niro ) . 
but soon the focus of finn's life becomes romance , as he develops a lifelong infatuation with estella ( gwyneth paltrow ) , an upper crust girl with some psychological and emotional issues due to being raised in a dysfunctional environment . 
estella was raised in wealth by ms . dinsmoor ( anne bancroft ) , an eccentric , aged and embittered , man-hating single aunt whose groom left her abandoned at the altar on the day of her marriage . 
this causes estella to 'fear the daylight' of relationships , but finn thinks it's just a case of snobbery . 
when finn becomes a young man , an anonymous benefactor sets finn up in new york with the connections and publicity to be groomed into a famous artist . 
finn leaves florida with " great expectations " to be a successful artist so that some day he might become classy enough to marry the snobbish estella . 
what will happen to all of finn's " great expectations ? " 
opinion : if you're looking for a romance with a happy ending , look no further ; you've found one here . 
ethan hawke is romantic lead . 
 ( he romanced winona ryder in reality bites . 
he romanced julie delpy in before sunrise . 
he romanced uma thurman in gattaca . 
now in great expectations he gets to chase gwyneth paltrow , a rail-thin blonde . ) 
hawke plays a lovestruck , earnest and unchanged finn throughout the film . 
meanwhile paltrow portrays estella as alternating between infuriating tease and ice princess ; estella's whole purpose is to get men to fall in love and then hurt them rather than become intimate . 
anne bancroft goes a little overboard as the deranged and pessimistic ms . dinsmoor , while robert de niro carries off the convict part suitably . 
the difference between the classic dickens novel and this 1998 adaptation is that the dickens novel is ripe with deep and timeless themes about class struggle and love , whereas great expectations ( 1998 ) is more artsy , less complicated story about a 1990s artist dealing with a lifetime tease . 

the film may be called mercury rising , but that title doesn't describe the trajectory taken by this motion picture , a routine thriller that combines government cover-ups with a cloying and poorly-motivated buddy story . 
the " hook " that is supposed to make mercury rising unique is that the young protagonist is autistic . 
however , aside from giving actor miko hughes a chance to win raves for his performance , this particular aspect of the film comes across as nothing more than a convenient plot device . 
those expecting to see even a semi-thorough exploration of the condition will be disappointed . 
mercury rising treats autism with the same degree of efficiency that many action thrillers accord to alcoholism . 
the script for mercury rising is exceptionally tiresome and hard- to-swallow . 
i don't know whether the problem is in the original book , simple simon , or in the screenplay adaptation , but this movie easily exceeds the intangible threshold beyond which a suspension of disbelief is no longer possible . 
once again , certain standby plot elements -- the high-level government conspiracy and the maverick law enforcement agent -- are recycled , and not to good effect . 
while bruce willis can play the action hero as well as anyone in hollywood , this particular outing leaves him marooned in situations that are characterized by too little tension and too much nonsense . 
the story begins with a formulaic sequence in which the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , art jeffries ( bruce willis ) , is confronted with his own failure . 
unable to resolve a hostage crisis in time , he is forced to observe as two teenagers are shot to death . 
the event weighs heavily on his conscience and heavy-handedly establishes his motivation for protecting 9-year old simon lynch ( miko hughes ) when he discovers the autistic child hiding in a closet after his parents have been gunned down by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player . 
soon , art and simon are on the run from seemingly everyone -- fleeing for their lives and bonding at the same time , with the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player always just a step behind them . 
along the way , they are helped by the best friend who defies orders to help out his buddy ( chi mcbride ) and the supporting female who may or may not become a love interest ( kim dickens ) . 
why is simon in danger and why were his parents turned into swiss cheese by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player ? 
apparently , the government has spent millions of dollars developing an ultra-secret code called " mercury . " 
to make sure it can't be cracked , they do the most intuitive thing possible : place a sample of it in a " nerds' puzzle magazine . " 
of course , no one can solve it -- no one except autistic simon , that is . 
when he calls the phone number listed in the solution , he gets the nsa . 
as a result , the cold-hearted , sneering government man ( alec baldwin ) decides that simon has to be eliminated -- for the good of the country , of course . 
but he hasn't counted on the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , even though everyone in the audience has . 
it's hard to get worked up about a routine thriller that doesn't do anything exceptionally well , and does quite a few things rather poorly . 
for those who are desperate to find elements of this movie to like , mercury rising manages to manufacture tension from time-to-time , but even the most exciting scenes ( such as the one where art and simon are crouched down , avoiding passing trains ) aren't that pulse-pounding . 
the climactic struggle is a real ho-hum affair which leads to a finale that is painful in its obviousness . 
overall , director harold becker is constantly struggling ( and failing ) to generate even a moment that isn't derivative or obligatory . 
bruce willis' star seems to be fading . 
this is his fourth straight lackluster outing , following last man standing , the fifth element , and the jackal . 
willis isn't terrible , but this is the kind of role he can sleepwalk through , and often does . 
alec baldwin , combining elements of his characters from glengarry glenn ross and malice , does some scenery- chewing , but his performance is surprisingly lacking in menace . 
the film's real star is young miko hughes ( heather langenkamp's son in wes craven's new nightmare ) , who does as good a job as dustin hoffman playing an autistic individual , but is about 50 years younger . 
mercury rising joins the likes of hard rain , the replacement killers , and u . s . marshals on the heap of pallid 1998 thrillers . 
for those who like action and adventure in the theater , this has not been a good year . 
hopefully , the advent of summer will change that . 
until then , the best choices ( for bruce willis or any other action hero ) are on video . 
and , if you're determined to see mercury rising , check out the morning sky in early may . 

to sum the entire film " 54 " up in one sentence , it would be : watch a vh1 documentary instead . 
 " 54 " , seems like someone brought william faulkner into 1978 , brought him into studio 54 , got him really drunk , told him to write about it , and then dumbed that down to be released to the public . 
a sloppy version of almost stream of conciousness spirals down into an oblivion of the illusion of sex , drugs , and disco . 
the narrator , shane o'shae ( ryan phillippe ) , works as a grease monkey in new jersey who , of course , on a whim decides to go into new york and try to get into studio " 54 " . 
phillippe gives a passable performance which could have been made by any young , attractive actor with a six pack stomach . 
he is let in by steve rubbell ( mike myers ) , the infamous co-owner of studio 54 , because he is attractive . 
he eventually becomes a bus boy and then a bartender . 
 . 
 . 
you expected more , didn't you . 
there isn't . 
the film builds up from nothing and becomes nothing as it's climax ( isn't that an apt word for studio 54 ) lands with a thud . 
the glitz of the club and perpetually semi-clothed patrons are used in an to attempt to show the it's glamour . 
for much of its target audience , college age to early thirties , it attempts to show celebrities mixing with " normal people . " 
this even fails since the only two celebs truly introduced are andy warhol and truman capote . 
you can be sure that half of the audience hasn't heard of them , another quarter only know their names , and the other quarter knew they were there already . 
the humor , if you can call it that , is built on an eighty year old woman getting high and 70s references like john travolta and olivia newton john making us laugh at how stupid we were back then 
the best performance in the film is given by mike myers as the perpetually high , sexually ambivlaent , very new york steve rubell . 
he seems to play rubell better than rubell would if he was still alive . 
he looks like rubell and sounds just like him while giving a subdued , almost nostalgic performance , when needed . 
it reminds you of his saturday night live character linda richmond on " coffee talk " sans dress and wig . 
the supporting cast of salma hayek , breckin meyer , and neve cambell are their only there to give added subplots which are introduced but lead absolutely nowhere . 
the romance between phillippe and cambell , as a soap opera star , is completely implausable . 
the two share about half as much screen time as there are shots of the eighty year old hooked on amphetimenes . 
hayek's wanna-be singer seems extremely forced and her husband , greg ( meyer ) stands in as shane o'shae's surrogate best friend . 
the subplots seemed forced and seem like they have been added just to make sure the film was over an hour and a half long . 
overall , " 54 " tried to give a view of the brashness of the place where crack flowed like heroin which flowed like wine . 
the film never leads to anything , has no obserable point , and covers up a lack of real plot with a veil of beautiful people . 
in truth , that reminded me of the eighies . 

wong kar-wei's " fallen angels " is , on a purely visceral level , one of the most exciting films i've seen in a long while . 
unfortunately , wong seems more interested in experimenting with his camera than creating tangible characters for the audience to root for . 
ordinarily , that alone would be enough to sink a movie , but in the case of " fallen angels " , this is not so . 
every shot in this film is exciting just to * look * at . 
wong does really interesting things with the camera , but he doesn't allow the pyrotechnics to completely take over , as was the case with last years dismal " knock off " ( which contained a shot of a foot entering a shoe . 
ugh . ) 
the movie follows three pairs of lost souls as they struggle to find some meaning in their lives . 
i can't say much more than that as i didn't really know what was going on most of the time . 
in fact , it wasn't until about halfway through the movie that i was able to distinguish between each character . 
the constantly moving camera doesn't really allow for the audience to associate with any one character . 
we're always kept at a distance from these people , i suppose in order to further add to the feeling of alienation felt by the characters . 
 " fallen angels " is a refreshing change-of-pace from most hollywood films , which never bother to try anything different , at least on a visual level . 
in fact , i'd go so far as to say that " fallen angels " is more challenging visually than any mainstream hollywood film i've ever seen . 
sure , there's directors like robert rodriguez who enjoy turning violence into operatic orgies of death , but to see a filmmaker like wong who actually assaults the senses with images is truly something worth celebrating . 
but if wong wishes to become a legendary filmmaker , he needs to work on incorporating an actual story into those awesome images . 
there were far too many instances during " fallen angels " in which i asked myself , " now who are these people again ? 
is this that first couple or the second couple ? " 
it was impossible to keep track . 
perhaps he could let the audience know right away which character is which , by introducing them to us with " name cards " , as in scorsese's " mean streets " . 
that's really besides the point , though . 
wong kar-wei has proven himself , through very few films , that's he's a movie-maker to watch . 
let's just hope that he hones his storytelling skills with his next few movies . 

as the twin surfer dudes , stew and phil deedle , lay bandaged and unconscious in the hospital , phil comes to first and chooses the coolest way to wake his brother . 
yanking out his iv , he uses it like a water pistol to soak his brother's face . 
this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched . 
 ( i stopped looking at my wife during the screening , since every time i did , she'd start sticking her finger in her throat . 
and she's right , it is that bad . ) 
directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best . 
boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts . 
amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more . 
but who's counting ? 
and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic . 
meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad . 
it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything . 
herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . " 
as the movie opens , the twins , who at one point describe themselves modestly as " a walking kodak moment , " are celebrating their 18th birthday . 
as they ride a parasail high above the waters of waikiki , a truant officer pursues them on his jet ski . 
as heirs to the fabulous fortune of the deedle empire , the boys are sent by their father to camp broken spirit at yellowstone to transform the two laid-back beach bums into men . 
as they arrive in their wetsuits in yellowstone , they've got their surfboards , skateboards , and a hawaiian drink machine the size of an armoire . 
their camp has gone out of business , but they are mistaken for new park rangers . 
the rest of the movie has them fighting the park's overpopulation of prairie dogs as well as a deranged ex-ranger , played by dennis hopper , who is out to stop old faithful before its billionth birthday celebration , scheduled for later in the week . 
hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material . 
this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in . 
steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances . 
the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey . 
even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull . 
to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog . 
put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said . 
although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road . 
they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt . 
 " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil . 
just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill . 
its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag . 
after phil's girlfriend digs up a big mount of moist soil , they suck in a long worm . 
like the two dog lovers eating spaghetti in lady and the tramp , their lips finally meet in a kiss . 
as they pull back , their faces are full of the dirt that encased the worm they have just ingested . 
meet the deedles runs about an hour and a half . 
it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up . 
my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both almost 9 , gave the show * * * . 
they both thought the scenes with petey were among their favorites . 
nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo . 

at first glance , daylight would seem like your typical disaster movie . 
on second glance it looks that way too . 
although , as typical disaster movies go , daylight isn't that bad . 
admittedly , it seems to rip off a great deal of its plot devices from disaster flicks of days gone by ( think poseidon adventure ) . 
but the decent dialogue and surprisingly good acting make up for the " haven't i seen this scene somewhere before ? " 
feeling that creeps up all too often during the film . 
sylvester stallone stars as the recently fired head of new york's emergency response team . 
by sheer luck , he is in the right place at the right time when disaster strikes the unaware inhabitants of this little film . 
 " what disaster is that ? " 
you ask , as you inch ever closer to the edge of your seat . 
glad you asked . 
through a whole sequence of entirely probable events ( about as probable as hitting the lottery ) a large explosion takes place in the lincoln tunnel running under the hudson river in new york city . 
the explosion results in the tunnel collapsing at both ends , which causes not only massive loss of life , but traps a dozen people inside the wreckage of the tunnel . 
good old sly , who is only feet away from entering the tunnel when it collapses , offers his services to the rescuers , who gladly accept it . 
sly then enters the tunnel through a vent shaft ( think judge dredd ) which he can only go in , and not out off , and proceeds to try to rescue those trapped inside . 
so begins the fun , but the fun has to be quick , because this tunnel has started to spring a leak . 
the acting is about what you would expect of a stallone movie . 
not superb by any means , but far above some of his other films ( think judge dredd again ) . 
daylight's acting is probably average , or a little above , in terms of this sort of genre , starring this particular star . 
amy brenneman is the only actor of any note , and she does a pretty good job as stallone's reluctant helper . 
oh yeah , stallone's real life son , sage , is in this too . 
sage -- nice name . 
i guess it could be worse , he could have been named nutmeg or parsley . 
note to sage -- you are still young . 
go to school and get a good education -- you don't have a future in acting . 
the plot runs along the same lines as the acting -- interesting , but predictable . 
mostly due to the fact that it was pretty well recycled from a dozen other action flicks . 
the biggest problem with a film of this nature is that they try to cram too many things into the movie . 
as soon as the cast clears one seemingly impossible hurdle , another one seems to pop right up , even worse than the last one . 
i realize that it wouldn't be much of a movie otherwise , but it does make the movie a bit predictable . 
adding to the predictability is the cast of characters , which of course , has to include at least one or two difficult people who want to do things their own way and think the qualified guy ( in this case stallone ) doesn't know what he is doing . 
why is it in disaster movies we can never have everyone agree with each other and all work together ? 
would this be too much to ask ? 
can't we all just get along ? 
special effects weren't bad -- but i've certainly seen better . 
some of the scenes , while fun to watch , were such blatant rip-offs that you had to wonder if scripts from old movies were just copied verbatim . 
especially all of the scenes that involved anything underwater ( the tunnel , of course , starts to flood ) . 
i really expected gene hackman , roddy mcdowell and ernest borgnine to appear at any minute -- i wasn't sure if i was watching daylight or the poseidon adventure . 
i suppose if you have to rip off a movie for good ideas , the poseidon adventure is a good one to use . 
the underwater sequences ( aside from the deja vu ) were very well shot and worked fairly well . 
they were the best part of the movie by a long shot . 
better than average stallone flick . 
i realize that's not saying much when the man has judge dredd on his resume . 
but certainly not up to the standards of cliffhanger . 
daylight is a fun movie , and as long as you aren't expecting a whole lot you might even be pleasantly surprised . 

i'm guessing -- and from the available evidence , it's not a great guess -- that burn hollywood burn began life as an insider satire of hollywood excess , stupidity , ego and power-mongering . 
if so , the film that ended up on the screen ranks as one of the most spectacularly ironic unintentional jokes in film history . 
it has already been well-documented that the original title , an alan smithee film , became a problem when miserable test screenings forced re-cuts against the will of director arthur hiller , prompting hiller himself to opt for the directors' guild-mandated pseudonym of alan smithee . 
that left a film satire in the hands of writer joe eszterhas , as humorless a hack as ever put finger to word processor . 
and you could just smell the disaster brewing . 
if you're unfortunate enough to sit through burn hollywood burn , you'll still be smelling that disaster long after the lights come up . 
ostensibly , it's a pseudo-documentary account of a director named alan smithee ( eric idle ) who loses control of a big-budget action film called trio starring sylvester stallone , whoopi goldberg and jackie chan ( all of whom appear as themselves ) . 
when the only recourse available to him is abandoning the project to be called " an alan smithee film " -- which , of course , it already is -- smithee steals the negative of the film and threatens to destroy it . 
among the parties interviewed are the film's producer james edmunds ( ryan o'neal ) and studio boss jerry glover ( richard jeni ) , who spend virtually the entire film narrating the story while painfully unfunny things go on around them . 
it's bad enough that burn hollywood burn has -- literally -- not a single laugh for its entire , blissfully brief 84 minutes . 
what makes it even worse is eszterhas' insistence upon telling every bad joke not once , but twice or even three times . 
michael ovitz references , showgirls references , oral sex references , whoopi goldberg/ted danson references -- all show up multiple times with all the subtlety that is eszterhas' stock-in-trade . 
the reduncancy even manages to turn actively offensive with some frequency , notably with the hilarious use of the word " feminist " as an identifying caption for every single female character in the film . 
by the time coolio and chuck d show up as black independent film-makers the brothers brothers ( cleverly identified as " bad a-- " and " badder a-- " , among other unprintable things ) , you may be ready to walk out of the theater with your coat over your head to avoid being identified . 
those documentary captions , for all their leaden obviousness , allow the best insight into what's so hideously wrong with burn hollywood burn . 
not content to stick any hollywood type with only one jab from his rapier wit , eszterhas fills the screen with bullet points every time a new character appears . 
the producer is a " liar " who " slept in the white house ; " the media are " maggots " and " leeches " working for publications like " the new york slimes " and " newsleak " ( with the camera zooming in on the altered title to make sure you don't miss the joke ) . 
it doesn't even matter that eszterhas tags " penile implant " after his own name when he makes a cameo , because it seems like such a desperate attempt to feign self-deprecation . 
this is a petulant schoolboy's idea of satire -- pictures of hollywood insiders to which eszterhas has taken a pen to draw little moustaches and black out the teeth . 
the last stomach-churning straw comes when burn hollywood burn closes with out-takes over the closing credits , the kind that show the audience how much fun everyone was having making the film that just sucked an hour and a half of your life away . 
perhaps it was just a final , desperate attempt by eszterhas to convince himself there was some purpose behind the film , or to convince everyone involved that a few blown lines warranted threatening to blow their whole career . 
pity everyone involved with this excessive , ego-driven " satire " of excess and ego . 
it's too bad that only directors can remove their names from noxious material like this . 
otherwise , you might have seen credits for burn hollywood burn overflowing with alan smithees . 

blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on . 
things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air . 
while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef . 
suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths . 
are amanda and tom destined to be together ? 
and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ? 
and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ? 
does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ? 
 " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna . 
it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes . 
add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion . 
the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting . 
patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue . 
also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes . 
of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this . 
the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance . 
when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab . 
now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 

one of the best movies i've ever seen . 
i'd heard extremely good things about this movie , and though the previews didn't really intrigue that much , it was a movie i'd been anticipating for a few months now . 
for some reason i'm not sure of - this movie was not that big a sucess over in the u . s . it was a definite hit with the critics , but didn't exactly set any box office records . 
after viewing this incredibly well directed , written and acted movie , i can't help but wonder - why ? 
the strength of this film is it's gritty realism . 
the main characters are all human with individual flaws , no stereo-type hollywood heroes . 
you may not agree with many of their actions in the movie or their approach to life , but that is what makes it so real . 
i had expected this movie to be more of a drama than a thriller , but i was mistaken . 
even the interrogation scenes moved at such a pace so that it felt just as thrilling as any car chase . 
and the ending . . . . . . whoa . 
i've never seen a movie in my life where everyone in it acts brilliantly . 
the three male leads - guy pearce , kevin spacey and russell crowe are all just terrific . 
the 'best actor' oscar talk surrounding this film should have netted one of them a statue , but there is one problem there . 
how could they have chosen between these three actors ? 
there is no way i could look at this film and say one of them was better than the other two . 
it's impossible . 
kim bassinger's performance is also a revelation . 
i'd never been a big fan of hers before and always thought she was , well . . . what's the word - a twinky ? 
that impression has changed , as she complemented crowe and pearce perfectly . 
the depth to the story and characters is truly astounding . 
no cardboard characters here . 
the plot is full of twists and turns and some very clever sequences . 
pearce's interogation of three seperate suspects is nothing short of brilliant . 
i really can't fault this movie at all . 
i was so glad to see fellow australian's pearce and crowe star in such a breathtaking movie . 
i had been very familiar with russell crowe beforehand from his many australian films , but had not seen much of guy pearce . 
i intend to change this next time i visit the video store : ) 

 " mercury rising " has numerous flaws , but there is one that really stands out : its central plot device is unnecessary . 
that's right . 
the major aspect of the film , that which is supposed to make it different from other routine government conspiracy / action flicks could be dropped from the beginning , and the movie would turn out exactly the same , if not better . 
this central device is the fact that a nine-year-old boy is autistic . 
his name is simon , and an evil government bureaucrat named nicholas kudrow ( alec baldwin ) wants him dead because he unknowingly cracked a supersecret government code slipped into the back of a puzzle magazine by its programmers just to see if someone could beat it . 
simon is intended to be the heart and soul of the film , and we are supposed to feel for him because he is a poor handicapped child thrown into a violent , unfair world against his will , with only a renegade fbi agent played by bruce willis to protect him . 
the fact that he is autistic does nothing for the emotional intensity or the plot necessities of " mercury rising . " 
i suppose the original novel upon which the movie was based did much more with this aspect of simon's character and his relationship with willis , but here it is lost . 
miko hughes , the young actor who plays simon , goes through the prescribed motions of being autistic : he walks slowly , drawls his words , kicks and screams when he's touched , and has a hard time looking at other people . 
it's a difficult role for an adult , much less a young child , to play , and unfortunately hughes never convinces us that he isn't playing like he's autistic . 
unlike dustin hoffman's performance in " rain man " or leonardo dicaprio's in " what's eating gilbert grape , " we are always painfully aware that hughes is acting . 
however , unlike " rain man " which used its character's autism in unique and interesting ways to build a credible and touching story , " mercury rising " could go right about its generic , predictable plot with simon being simply a really smart but really shy kid . 
hell , he doesn't even have to be shy . 
in fact , the movie might have been more interesting if he had had a more active role , rather than just being carted around under willis' arm . 
willis' character , art jeffries , is a disillusioned fbi agent who has been removed from undercover work and is now doing menial tasks like listening to wiretaps with rookies who are happy to be doing anything . 
he becomes involved with simon when he is called to check out a murder scene at simon's house , where his father has apparently shot his mother in the back and then committed suicide . 
of course , we know that isn't the way it happened happen because we saw an evil , square-jawed government hitman with a mean-looking crew-cut knock off the parents . 
simon was able to get away , and jeffries finds him hiding in a secret compartment in a closet , which the rest of the chicago police department had overlooked . 
jeffries -- who is accused by several characters at different times of being paranoid although his actions never suggest it -- knows there is something more , and he makes it his personal mission to go against everything and everyone in order to protect simon . 
this is quite a task because that same hitman who knocked off simon's parents is crawling everywhere , attempting to kill simon at the hospital , on the highway , and every other place he goes . 
late in the movie , jeffries is forced to enlist the aid of a pretty young woman named stacey ( kim dickens ) who he meets at a coffee shop . 
of all the hard-to-believe aspects of the movie , this is the worst . 
i can believe in the decency of the human heart , but stacey's character is far too accommodating . 
not only does she agree to watch simon while jeffries runs off to solve the mystery , she lets him into her apartment at two o'clock in the morning when she knows the police is after him , and then lets him leave simon in her apartment which means that she has to forgo a business trip that is desperately needed to pay the rent . 
the grinding squeals of the rusty plot machine are almost overbearing at this point . 
the movie might have been redeemed by some good action sequences , but even here " mercury rising " doesn't rise to the challenge . 
the movie was directed by harold becker , who has made some good suspense films including " sea of love " ( 1989 ) and " malice " ( 1993 ) , but his talent is nowhere to be found in this latest excursion . 
there is one fight on a streetcar between jeffries and another hitman ( played by peter stormare ) that is so ineptly directed , shot and edited , that i had no idea 1 ) exactly where they were on the streetcar , 2 ) who was hitting who , and 3 ) where this hitman came from and how he knew where jeffries and simon were . 
the grand finale takes place on the roof of a tall building , and features a harrowing ( yawn ) scene where simon walks along the very edge of the building , not because he has to , but because it's more suspenseful that way . 
taken as a whole , " mercury rising " is an tepid , confused movie that lacks style , wit , and any traces of a sense of humor . 
usually willis brings his personal brand of understated humor to his roles , but here he is too straight and serious . 
this is because the movie wants to be an action flick and a heartfelt drama at the same time , but it ends up failing on both fronts . 
maybe the book was better , but the way it's handled here is a perfect case study in formula filmmaking guaranteed to bore . 

synopsis : sonny koufax ( adam sandler ) is a rich , childish , angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa ( kristy swanson ) . 
in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin ( jon stewart ) and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) while kevin is on an overseas trip . 
under sonny's supervision julian soon learns to lie to women , tell people how he " wipes his ass , " throw tantrums , and scream for his " god damned " treats . 
self centered , julian breaks a school classmate's arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anything wrong . 
meanwhile sonny bribes julian with sugary talk , food , toys , and flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform . 
not surprisingly the government takes julian away from sonny's incompetent supervision , and this leads to a custody battle . 
opinion : it's a movie about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk , and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means when he mimics all the bad boy behavior . 
that's the essence of big daddy . 
but there's a bigger issue involved : marketing . 
movies that are rated pg and pg-13 are heavily marketed towards children of preteen age and below . 
on tv , film clips advertise these movies as family-friendly hit comedies . 
then when you go see them they turn out to be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard - - or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying up to naive five year olds and encouraging them to experiment with drugs and mistreatment . 
folks in hollywood are trying to develop a preteen market for raunchy stuff , but i think most american parents would agree that early childhood is a time of mental innocence that should be protected from uncaring media market exploitation . 
to many american mothers there's probably nothing more pathetic and unsettling than the sight of a theater full of unsupervised little eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman's " ice cold tits . " 

i don't know what movie the critics saw , but it wasn't this one . 
the popular consensus among newspaper critics was that this movie is unfunny and dreadfully boring . 
in my personal opinion , they couldn't be more wrong . 
if you were expecting airplane ! -like 
laughs and agatha christie-intense mystery , then yes , this movie would be a disappointment . 
however , if you're just looking for an enjoyable movie and a good time , this is one to see . 
honest , it is . 
this story is about a 4th network , wbn , taking to america's airwaves in 1939 . 
penny henderson ( mary stuart masterson ) , the station owner's secretary , must deal with her overbearing boss , an unimpressed sponsor and writers ready to quite on a moment's notice , partly due to the fact that they haven't been paid in weeks . 
among the mayhem , she must also deal with her soon-to-be ex-husband , roger ( brian benben ) who desperately wants her back . 
unfortunately , her problems only get worse as the night goes on and the body count rises without explanation . 
while trying to woo penny back , roger must deal with the police and try to find the killer that lurks at wbn . 
mary stuart masterson does well in her role as penny ( i'm trying to be unbiased so i won't tell you how amazing she looked ) , although brian benben gets most of the screen time . 
along with the two leads , are several recognizable faces , including corbin bernsen ( l . a . 
law ) , michael mckean ( laverne & shirley ) and bobcat goldthwait . 
the special effects are amazing , and fooled me ( which some may argue isn't very difficult to do ) in many scenes . 
although the movie sometimes goes overboard with the physical comedy , it more than makes up for those mistakes throughout the movie . 
overall , i gave it , or an , depending on what system you use . 
some comments collected from friends : 

 " oh my god , i sounded just like a mother ! " 
mrs . pascal , played with devilish wickedness by genevieve bujold , tells her son . 
 " didn't i sound just like a mother ? " 
 " you are a mother , " her son marty tells her disgustedly . 
 " i know , but i still can't believe it . 
i look at you people and wonder , how did you ever fit in my womb ? " 
marty , you see , is a grown-up twin . 
although his sister , who thinks she is jackie-o , is certifiably insane , marty fits right in with the rest of this highly dysfunctional family in the witty black comedy the house of yes . 
mother and daughter , played in a brilliant performance by parker posey , are both varying degrees of wacko . 
most dysfunctional families in the movies are more angry and mean-spirited than diabolically abnormal as this one is . 
the daughter's fantasy of being jackie-o is probably the most sane part of her being . 
mrs . pascal is the sort that will not let jackie-o keep a hairbrush downstairs since food is kept on that level . 
she explains to marty's new fiancee , lesly ( tori spelling ) , soon after their first meeting that jackie-o was holding marty's private part when she came out of the womb . 
the dialog by wendy macleod , based on the play by mark waters , is so sharp and biting that it seems in danger of cutting through the celluloid at any moment . 
the script , reminiscent of a david mamet play , flows smoothly with its fast paced intelligence and mesmerizing set of bizarre characters . 
the exaggerated setup has lesly and marty arriving at the family's out of the way mansion during a thanksgiving day hurricane . 
in this storm are two sane individuals . 
the fiancee is a giddy , school-girl type , embarrassed by everything , a complete contrast to her rival jackie-o's bitter pseudo-sophistication . 
as the two twins' younger brother , anthony , freddie prinze jr . plays the all-america boy type whose only foible is his explicit obsession of bedding his brother's fiancee that night . 
 " we all have our secrets , " jackie-o tells her potential sister-in-law , and boy , does she have a few . 
this is a house filled with them . 
 ( when lesly calls it the family's " home " to mrs . pascal -- they've never had a visitor before lesly -- mrs . pascal becomes discombobulated until she realizes that lesly is talking about their " house . " ) 
in a film that gives new meaning to the phrase , " made for each other , " the twin's biggest , but not their only secret , is that they've had a long-term incestuous relationship . 
they don't like to discuss it , although they are not particularly ashamed of it . 
perfect for viewers who can appreciate perverse comedy , this story never pulls its punches . 
jackie-o tries in many ways , few subtle , to show that she is a better match for marty than that ditzy fiancee of his . 
in one scene marty and lesly are playing chop sticks together on the piano when jackie-o pushes her aside and starts playing a challenging classical piece for four hands . 
marty joins her as his fiancee looks on with envy . 
the chemistry between parker posey and josh hamilton is nothing short of amazing . 
they put down their little brother and most of the other sane people in the world . 
their ripostes are engaging filmmaking at its best . 
director mark waters keeps the show's energy level high and lets the leads sling zingers at each other at a furious pace . 
his crisp direction ensures the movie has nary an ounce of fat on it . 
jackie-o is temperamentally incapable of being nice . 
and being jealous , she cuts lesly down mercilessly . 
 " were you poor ? " 
jackie-o asks her when she finds that lesly committed the crime of growing up impoverished . 
 " did you eat pies ? 
chicken pot pies ? " 
 " pancakes actually , lots of pancakes , " lesly replies with her usual sincerity . 
 " a donut king , so is she like the queen ? , " 
jackie-o cattily inquires of marty when she learns that lesly works at a donut king . 
 " are we entertaining royalty ? " 
with rolfe kent's whimsically sinister music it never seems clear where the story is headed . 
will it end in a big emotional explosion , a murder , people slowly cutting each other up with words , a familial catharsis , a weather disaster or what ? 
the emotionally charged play is clearly going somewhere , and the engaging characters captivate the audience with their spell . 
i'll not say more except that the ending is perfect and a bit of a surprise . 
the house of yes runs a blazing fast 1 : 25 . 
it is rated r for sexual situations and conversations , mature themes , violent overtones and some profanity . 
the movie would be fine for older and mature teenagers , i . e . , treat the movie as it were rated nc-17 . 

ingredients : london gal , fate , true love , running joke about monty python's spanish inquisition 
synopsis : american actress gwyneth paltrow with dark hair , playing a londoner ? 
believe it . 
sliding doors is a love 'what if' story . 
the gimmick is that it's really two stories : the film follows the life of helen ( gwyneth paltrow ) down two directions . 
in the beginning , likeable gal 'helen' ( gwyneth paltrow ) gets unexpectedly fired from her advertising job . 
so she goes into the subway train station meaning to return home early to her apartment and her sleeping live-in lover gerry ( john lynch ) . 
helen doesn't know it , but she is at a fateful junction in life : 1 ) if she enters through the sliding door of a london subway train her life takes one path with one future 2 ) if she stays on the platform her life takes another path with a different future . 
the film shows what happens in both paths , switching back and forth between intertwined , parallel stories . 
in story one , helen meets a charming and talkative monty python fan named james ( john hannah ) on the train . 
arriving home early , she discovers that her live-in , gerry ( john lynch ) , is having sex with his former lover lydia ( jeanne tripplehorn ) . 
this leads to a life where helen moves out . 
helen's winsome new friend james helps her recover from a broken heart , and encourages her to start her own business . 
in story two , helen experiences a different fate . 
she misses the train , never meets james , and doesn't get home early enough to discover gerry's infidelity . 
in this new life , helen takes up odd menial jobs , and faces the constant sneaking suspicion that all is not right with her relationship with gerry . 
will the truth of the heart finally work its way through a number of problems and setbacks in both scenarios ? 
opinion : rejoice all ye monty python fans , gwyneth paltrow fans , and watchers of quirky romance flicks . 
at last here's proof that there's still creativity in 1990s filmmaking . 
sliding doors is refreshingly different from anything this year . 
not only is it a well-acted , heartwarming film , but it's also easily gwyneth paltrow's best recent performance . 
when helen ( paltrow ) screams that her unfaithful boyfriend is a 'shagging wanker , ' ( a british phrase better left untranslated ) she sounds like she knows what she's talking about ! 
nor does sliding doors go overboard with formulaic true love or other stereotypes . 
nobody scrambles around in danger , screaming , " i will find you no matter what , my darling ! " 
when helen finds herself on a boat in the starlight with james , she doesn't take the easy way out and leap into his arms , since she's supposed to be recovering from heartache . 
and handsome live-in boyfriend gerry isn't the stereotypical screen hunk ( either a stud or a snob ) . 
instead he's a nervous and indecisive , almost helpless hunk . 
another example : when one of the protagonists lies wounded in a hospital , sliding doors gives us neither the 'hospital miracle' nor a maudlin tragedy but surprises us with a third variation . 
in other words , all of the characters seem non-stereotyped , human , and local . 
there are minor inconveniences . 
since sliding doors switches back and forth between two possible fates , it's occasionally difficult to distinguish between the two . 
distinguishing between the two stories isn't a problem in the scenes containing paltrow , who sports two different hairstyles . 
but in scenes containing only lydia and gerry , who look the same in both stories , it's slightly confusing . 
also , quite a few snappy comebacks referring to american pop culture ( seinfeld , woody allen , etc . ) are spoken by the british characters . 
but these seem slightly forced , given that the remaining dialogue is predominantly british slang . 
possibly an attempt by the screenwriter to balance the british so that american audiences can feel more comfortable ? 
sliding doors is a charming , quirky , original , happy romance with a little 'philosophy of fate' thrown in . 
monty python and the meaning of fate , anybody ? 

susan granger's review of " jeepers creepers " ( mgm/ua entertainment ) 
this nasty , little horror film begins as a bickering brother ( justin long ) and sister ( gina philips ) are driving through the desolate countryside on their way home from college and spy a man dropping wrapped-up bodies down a drainage pipe . 
when long decides to investigate , there's nothing but trouble . 
 " you know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it ? 
- well , this is it ! " 
philips warns . 
what he finds in the basement of an old , abandoned church is a dying boy with a horrifying , jagged-stitched incision from his neck to his navel , plus hundreds of other mutilated bodies , stitched together on the walls and ceiling like a disgusting tapestry . 
long flees but now the monstrous , winged creeper ( jonathan breck ) is after both of them ! 
eileen brennan appears briefly as the cat lady and patricia belcher is jezelle , a psychic who explains the evil creature's bizarre feeding habits . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " jeepers creepers " is a fiendishly visceral 2 with an extraordinarily gruesome conclusion , giving new meaning to the old song " jeepers creepers . " 
and now - as paul harvey would say - for the rest of the story . 
what's more scary than the cruelty of the satanic film itself is the fact that writer/director victor salva is a convicted child molester who videotaped himself having oral sex with a 12 year-old actor in california . 
sentenced to three years in prison , he served 15 months and completed parole in 1992 . 
when salva made " powder " ( 1995 ) , the story of an albino boy with supernatural abilities , disney studio executives claimed that they did not know about his prior conviction as a pedophile . 
and now , once again , in this mgm/ua film , that fact is conspicuously absent from his press kit bio . 

 " the 44 caliber killer has struck again . " 
starring john leguizamo , mira sorvino , adrian brody , jennifer esposito , michael rispoli , bebe neuwirth . 
rated r . 
summer of sam will be remembered as a waste of spike lee's abilities . 
lee is a great filmmaker , often exhibiting kinetic visual flair on par with brian depalma and martin scorsese and a storytelling ability comparable to steven spielberg . 
but here , he gets himself into a bind . 
his latest effort is a case of a director pretending he has something to say when in reality there is little of substance to absorb from his work . 
the summer of 1977 was an unusual summer in new york city . 
it was the hottest summer on record . 
to boot , new york's first serial killer was on the loose : calling himself the son of sam , david berkowitz killed 9 people in the new york area and frightened the whole city population . 
so it was understandable that when nyc was hit with a citywide blackout , people went berserk , causing billions of dollars in damage to the city . 
the movie's focus is on a group of twenty-somethings during that fateful summer : vinny ( john leguizamo ) , a club-hopping , adultrous hairdresser , his benevolent wife dionna ( mira sorvino , looking young ) , ritchie ( adrian brody ) , a punk who becomes an outcast as well as a son of sam suspect , a gang of small time mobsters and a few more minor characters . 
we follow them through their roller coaster lives , thrown out of whack even more by the recent killings . 
vinny and dionna have marital problems because vinny cheats and dionna tries to please him , make him stay faithful to her . 
ritchie gets shunned by his group of friends because he has started to become more and more " eccentric , " and has degenerated to the point of dancing in gay night clubs and making porno films with his girlfriend . 
tensions build and conflicts arise as the anniversary night of son of sam's first murder looms ; the night he promises he will strike again . 
a local gang with too much time on its hands makes a list detailing all of the people that its members think might be suspects . 
at the top of the list is ritchie . 
vinny , an unwilling part of the said group , is called upon to set a trap for his friend . 
as we watch these proceedings , some of which are painfully graphic , the dreaded " so what ? " 
question springs to mind . 
from the way this movie is made , i'd have guessed that spike lee was trying to tell us something , but as i searched deeper it became clear that there is very little there to find . 
lee touches on so much -- the media , the 70's punk scene , the details of the actual killings , as well as the characters' very personal dilemmas -- but he doesn't bring all of his topics together to form a coherent theme or make a discernible statement . 
all is not lost if a movie turns out to be hollow ; it can be a saving grace for the film to be enjoyable . 
too bad summer of sam doesn't get any help here . 
frankly , it's a bore , a redundant and repetitive two hour and twenty minute film that doesn't entertain beyond its first half hour . 
there is no suspense because the film refuses to be fully about the murders and little involving drama because the film is too muddled and its focus too vague . 
leguizamo's turn as vinnie is annoying and whiny . 
the script makes it clear that we're supposed to believe that his character is flawed , but still a good guy . 
you'd never guess from his performance . 
adrian brody and especially mira sorvino fare better . 
sorvino gives a riveting , touching performance in a banal movie ( i'm tempted to think that i liked her because nearly everything else around her was inane ) ; her character is affecting and her emotions true-to-heart . 
brody , too paints an effective portrait of a young guy desperate for attention who gets a little more than he bargained for . 
summer of sam has some superficial elements of a good film : it looks great , it has a few notable performances and i suppose it's pretty well directed , in a purely technical way . 
but it's also empty , pretentious and boring . 
like last year's the thin red line , it's a movie by a director who doesn't know what he wants to say but goes ahead and says it anyway . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 

making a sequel to a widely beloved film is a weighty proposition indeed , especially when the first film is considered by many to be a masterpiece . 
when it comes to living up to expectations , a filmmaker is almost doomed to some degree of failure . 
for a sequel to live up to or even surpass the original's greatness is very rare indeed . 
and whereas " babe : pig in the city " misses equaling the greatness of its best picture nominated predecessor babe , it is a worthy companion piece . 
more than that , it is a spectacular work of art that deserves to stand alone in its own right . 
 " babe : pig in the city " warrants the classification of being recognized with such classics like " the godfather : part ii " and " the empire strikes back " as being one of the greatest sequels ever produced . 
 " babe : pig in the city " picks up precisely where " babe " left off . 
having won the sheep herding competition , farmer hoggett ( james cromwell ) and his pig are elevated to fame status . 
a series of unfortunate circumstances and hilariously freakish events leads to mrs . hoggett taking babe from the small country farm into the big city . 
in doing so , the film transports us into a wonderfully imaginative world that simultaneously mirrors and exceeds the creative design seen in the original . 
 " babe : pig in the city " flourishes where so many sequels fail . 
most sequels simply rehash the events of the first film . 
not " babe : pig in the city " . 
this is a completely original tale that offers up a story drastically different than the first . 
also , by not being content to utilize most of the old characters , this film gives us many new ones to enjoy . 
in essence , it doesn't attempt to copy itself . 
instead , it strives to achieve an originality of its own . 
and it succeeds . 
that's not to say the familiar is absent . 
 " babe : pig in the city " retains some of the best core elements and characters from the first film . 
along with babe himself , ferdinand the duck comes along for the ride , as does mrs . hoggett ( one of this decade's best and most underappreciated comic characterizations , hilariously performed by magda szubanski ) . 
the three singing mice also make the journey , chiming in with their cute high-pitched vocals . 
the story structure is also similar as each segment is introduced with title cards read by the aforementioned mice . 
from there , we are guided once again by roscoe lee browne's soothingly deep narrative . 
composer nigel westlake also returns with his whimsical music style that is perfect for cinematic fables such as these . 
but these elements are simply the frame that surrounds an entirely new painting . 
while staying at the flealands hotel , babe encounters a veritable ark-full of new animals . 
monkeys , kittens , and dogs of various breeds and sizes are some of the new " urbanites " that babe befriends , as well as some wonderfully comical pelicans that ferdinand the duck happens to encounter . 
each character is distinctly unique , some of which are imbued with personal human-like struggles that are endearing and touching . 
and while this world focuses largely on these animals , we are introduced to two new human characters as well . 
mary stein plays the owner of the flealands hotel , an animal-loving young spinster who harbors these lost creatures much to the dismaying anger of her fellow neighbors . 
stein's landlady is a wonderfully odd caricature . 
we also meet fugly floom , an old soft-spoken clown who owns many of the animals in the flealands hotel , utilizing them as a part of the act that he performs at different parties and functions . 
not having known who portrayed fugly floom prior to seeing the film , it came as an unexpected pleasant surprise to see who it was . 
so as not to ruin this well-kept secret , i won't reveal the actor's identity here . 
it was a treat indeed to see one of cinema's legends grace the screen again in what was a superbly gentle and heartwarming performance . 
the greatest triumph of " babe : pig in the city " is the art direction . 
simply put--it bleeds creativity , taking the look of the original film to a whole new level . 
restricted primarily to a farm the first time around , this second installment creates an entire city , dazzling us with unique fable-like architecture . 
but the stroke of pure genius by production designer roger ford is his use of our world's architectural landmarks . 
designing a skyline that includes the statue of liberty , the sydney opera house , the brooklyn bridge , the hollywood sign and the eiffel tower , ford has created a singular city that encompasses all of our cities ( as seen in the film photo and pre-production drawing to your right ) . 
added to that , many of this city's streets are the twin siblings of venice's gondola-trekked rivers . 
the metropolis that has sprung from ford's vision is a wondrous sight to behold . 
it is a world that you want to walk around in . 
norma moriceau's costume designs belong in this world , vibrant in color and style equal to that of the ford's landscape . 
most of the costumes are imaginatively cartoonish , with the most exotically grand design going to that of fugly floom's clown outfit . 
andrew lesnie's photography captures these elements with various lighting moods that are beautifully effective in creating the film's multiple emotional tones . 
much press fodder has been made over the weeks leading up to the release of " babe : pig in the city " . 
reports stated that its original cut was branded with a pg-13 rating . 
these reports were discovered to be false as it was assigned a pg rating . 
but even so , to be anything harsher than the original' s g rating had many parents and fans up in arms . 
by deleting a minimal number of shots , " babe : pig in the city " was eventually given the coveted g rating . 
although appeased , many fans were still concerned that it would be too dark , fearing that the film may have come to be possessed by tim burton himself . 
well , to coin a phrase , the reports of " babe : pig in the city " 's death at the hands of a dark , scary , felliniesque interpretation have been greatly exaggerated . 
granted it has its moments of pseudo-morbidity , but all-in-all " babe : pig in the city " is the funny and charming adventure that everyone was hoping it would be . 
whatever " dark " moments it may have can be attributed to director george miller ( the " mad max " trilogy , " the witches of eastwick " , " lorenzo's oil " ) . 
having served as a producer and co-writer on the first film , miller moves into the director's chair for this one , putting his own unique sense of style into this budding franchise . 
the story of " babe : pig in the city " is an enchanting yarn , but one that doesn't achieve the emotional or character depth of the original . 
missing here is the attempt to broach such heady themes as personal identity , an individual's worth , challenging conformity , and one's purpose in life . 
 " babe " dealt with this weighty subject matter , creating a timeless fable . 
 " babe : pig in the city " should not have rehashed these themes , but i do wish it would have attempted to explore new ones . 
this film is not bereft of moral or message as it parallels such issues as urban strife , class differences , sacrificial courage , and so on . 
but this film's goals aren't as lofty as the first's , instead choosing to take a more straightforward approach , allowing its themes to take a back seat to an exciting , sometimes intense , fable adventure that is undeniably clever and inventive . 
 " babe : pig in the city " also decides against developing a relationship to the level of which was present in the first film , specifically the one between farmer hoggett and babe . 
hoggett's love for babe , which grew ever so gently , is what gave that film its charming and endearing quality . 
best exemplified in hoggett's dance for babe , this moving relationship was truly unique . 
it is something that i wish would have been present again ( and could have through fugly floom ) , but was not . 
please understand , these are not negative criticisms , per se' , but simply statements of what i see as the differences between " babe : pig in the city " being a very good film and the original being a great one . 
but having said that , these observations are minor critiques at best . 
as an overall piece , " babe : pig in the city " is a thoroughly enchanting and entertaining fable from beginning to end . 
sure , it isn't a great film , but it is an excellent one that possesses elements of greatness . 
it is a film that is magical with its charm and humor , exciting in its adventurous exploits , funny with its dry wit and cute voices , and breathtaking in its presentation . 
 " babe : pig in the city " may not be moviemaking at its absolute best , but it is on level of cinematic quality that is rarely achieved or seen in cinema . 
as a result , if you choose to let this film pass you by , you will be missing of the year's best cinematic treats . 

here's something to chew on : what's the favorite food of big , cheesy-looking special effects monsters like the one lurking in the bowels of a luxury liner in deep rising ? 
the obvious answer to this question is cardboard , because that's the depth of the most fully- developed character in this painfully generic creature feature . 
deep rising demonstrates all the originality and vitality of something scripted by a computer . 
in fact , considering the rigid adherence to the expected formulas , perhaps it was . 
the most astonishing thing about deep rising is the exceptionally high level of gore . 
not since starship troopers have this many chunks of flesh ( both human and non-human ) been scattered in all directions . 
we learn some bloody trivia , as well , such as how a sea monster spraypaints in red ( it drinks a human being then spits out the liquefied remains ) and what it does with half-digested leftovers . 
i suppose deep rising's gallery of grotesque images represents fun stuff for those who love the macabre , but it doesn't do much for me . 
on the surface , and that's about the only level at which this film can be analyzed , deep rising feels like tremors grafted onto titanic ( everyone else is citing the equally valid aliens/titanic connection , since james cameron directed both ) . 
in going for the big disaster angle of titanic and the tongue-in-cheek mayhem of tremors , deep rising somehow misses both marks by a wide margin . 
the film is not humorous , tense , or exciting . 
in fact , it's downright boring , and , despite being half the length of cameron's current box-office champ , deep rising feels like the longer movie . 
is it really necessary to say anything about the plot ? 
probably not , since it's easy to guess , but i'll go ahead and oblige anyone who wants a synopsis . 
the film opens by introducing us to a gang of bad guys on board a mercenary ship . 
in addition to the usual cast of psychopaths and lunatics , there's finnegan ( treat williams ) , the boat's pilot , who's supposed to be an indiana jones knockoff ; joey ( kevin j . o'connor ) , the inept sidekick who's supposed to be lovable and funny ( but is really just irritating ) ; and hanover ( wes studi ) , the " mastermind " ( and i use that term lightly ) of the operation . 
their goal : attack a cruise ship , clean out the safe , then sink it using some illegally-acquired torpedoes . 
the problem is , by the time they reach the argonautica , the titanic-like luxury liner has turned into the marie celeste . 
aside from a beautiful jewel thief ( famke janssen ) and a couple of crew members , there's no one on board . 
the reason soon becomes obvious -- the ship has been taken over by a bad special effect that is supposed to resemble an octopus with teeth and more than eight tentacles . 
the cast , which is led by treat williams , is primarily comprised of has-beens and probably-never-will-bes ( two exceptions : wes studi , best known as the villain in the last of the mohicans , and djimon hounsou , amistad's cinque ) . 
williams , once a " can't miss " prospect in hollywood , has fallen so far out of favor that the best he can do these days for a lead role is a film like deep rising , and his inability to create a charismatic or interesting figure here may sink whatever is left of his sputtering career . 
famke janssen , who will forever be known as xenia onatopp from goldeneye , is the perfect bland match for williams . 
given her limited acting abilities , it's likely that she was chosen for this part primarily on the basis of her physical attributes . 
unfortunately , a bra defeats the purpose of having her in a wet tee-shirt for half of the picture . 
meanwhile , kevin j . o'connor , who has entirely too much screen time , exhibits all the appeal of fingernails scratching a blackboard . 
these days , audiences are becoming more difficult to impress with computer-generated special effects . 
this is a lesson that writer/director stephen sommers ( who previously helmed the live-action jungle book ) needs to learn . 
the days of jurassic park , when viewers were astounded by the mere spectacle of seeing something big and imposing on screen , are past . 
now , movie-goers are looking for the sophistication of titanic -- visuals that are so well-incorporated that it's impossible to tell where they end and where " reality " begins . 
in deep rising , the monster , like everything , is artificial and unconvincing . 
unfortunately , the fundamental problem audiences are faced with here isn't so much the idiotic monotony of this individual picture , but the poor quality of the entire bankrupt genre ( although , to be fair , deep rising is a particularly bad entry ) . 
even once this film has sunk out of sight , the knowledgeable viewer knows it won't be the last of its kind . 
like the slimy , slithering things that inhabit the air vents and pipes of these movies , more are waiting just around the corner in ambush . 
and that consideration , unlike anything on screen , is truly horrifying . 

the spy game is up . 
you can thank charlie's angels -- the movie -- for that . 
when did banality and pandering become okay ? 
just steal from hong kong , the matrix , and a kitschy tv show from the mid-1970s and that's a movie ? 
charlie's angels is one of the worst examples of action film homogeneity and shameless duplicity in any film i've seen in ages . 
charlie's angels is dumb . 
just plain dumb . 
as we all know , three of the hottest females on the planet -- drew barrymore , cameron diaz , and lucy liu -- are three super-agents working for the mysterious millionaire named charlie . 
they all drive fast cars , look oh-so-fabulous even in the morning , and don't seem to get a scratch even when fighting armed men , having buildings explode ten feet in front of them , or flying through the air in matrix slow-motion . 
and while the entourage spends 90 minutes romping around in cleavage-busting wetsuits , cleavage-busting waitress uniforms , and cleavage-busting wet t-shirts , they scarcely succeed in resembling so much as a group of annoying , drunk sorority girls , the kind who hit on everybody at a party . 
the actual plot revolves around the ridiculous story of a millionaire computer engineer -- the great sam rockwell -- who gets kidnapped by a mysterious rival computer company . 
of course , the rival wants control of his new personal identification system , which involves such latter-day buzzwords as gps , cellular tracking , and even mainframe . 
the amazing crispin glover lends his acting chops as a crazed henchmen involved in all the nasty things that happen to the angels -- like battling each of them in many round-robin matrix rip-off ( again ) fight sequences and harboring a strange attraction to sliced-off locks of the angels' hair . 
the coup de grace is bill murray as bosley , serving as charlie's manservant , or , more to the point , the angels' pimp . 
the rest of the movie comprises a revenge arc , enough costume changes to fill three productions of les miserables , carbon-copy fight sequences that would lend credible evidence to a jackie chan and the wachowski brothers lawsuit for intellectual property theft , and the strange transformation of sam rockwell into mickey rourke's long-lost brother . 
charlie's angels starts off with a bang and ends up being a soggy burrito left out overnight . 
nothing is difficult , plausible , or believable in any of the angels' actions . 
it feels like the matrix , mission : impossible 2 , and cleopatra jones and the casino of gold all rolled into one . 
diaz is a knucklehead . 
barrymore is the " dangerous one , " mean and tough and about as believable as katie holmes in the role . 
liu is just . . . 
lucy liu , looking good in a skin-tight black leather suit . 
the list of movies from which charlie's angels is directly lifted is equally astonishing . 
the writers apparently ran the copier all night stealing scenes from armageddon , lethal weapon ii , all of jackie chan's movies , the great escape , saturday night fever , revenge of the nerds , payback , darkman , dr . no , the matrix ( as mentioned ) , and even tv's friends . 
it's a shame , too , because one of the many screenwriters , john august , was at the helm of last year's favorite , go . 
then again , what can you expect from a director known solely as " mcg . " 
there is no camp value in the film , no interesting main characters , no invigorating action scenes , no reason at all to waste your time except to ogle the hot chicks and enjoy the performances of a few supporting players . 
note to hollywood : next time , let's leave the tv shows on the tv . 

this was the last carry on movie ( if you discount 'carry on columbus' as a carry on movie ) and was made by a new production company . 
based in central london , this movie is about the attempts by emmanuelle prevert ( suzanne danielle ) to bed her husband emile the french ambassador ( kenneth williams ) . 
when he seems unwilling , she is given his permission to bed anyone she likes , such as the prime minister and the u . s . ambassador . 
her antics get her into trouble and the british press spread these rumours all over their front pages . 
she is invited to talk on television to set the record straight but only confirms the rumours instead . 
meanwhile , theodore valentine ( larry dann ) is in love with emmannuelle after a chance encounter in the toilet of the concorde and is determined to marry her . 
however , she is only interested in restoring her husband's ardour which seems a little difficult after emile's accident with a church spire ! 
this film is the second worst carry on movie , the worst being 'carry on england' . 
it is embarassing to see some of the remaining regulars struggle through this diabolical script by lance peters and try to pull off some of the crude and tasteless jokes that he has written . 
newcomers suzanne danielle and beryl reid ( as mrs . valentine ) are mildly funny , but larry dann as theodore is excruciatingly bad . 
kenneth williams only appears in a few scenes and his lacklustre performance is warranted , given the script . 
the small parts for jack douglas as lyons the butler , joan sims as mrs . dangle , kenneth connor as leyland the chauffeur , and peter butterworth as richmond , are worthless and embarassing . 
in fact , all four parts are surplus to requirements . 
however , the only humourous scene in the film is when the four of them and emmannuelle talk about their most amourous escapades . 
an awful script , a terrible collection of jokes , very poor production values ( especially the scene where emmannuelle takes her clothes off at st . james palace ) , a ludicrous and cringeworthy musical score , and a non-existent plot or storyline . 
its just a succession of awful set pieces about who emmannuelle will bed next ! 
jack douglas is not so annoying but is more boring , joan sims and peter butterworth are wasted , and kenneth connor and kenneth williams put in some poor performances as leyland and emile . 
a complete waste of time , this movie was trying to catch up with the new sexually permissive seventies . 
it was a certificate 15 film but by 1978 , there was little interest in this kind of film and it flopped at the box office and was only given its premiere on uk terrestrial television in april 1998 ! 
avoid at all costs ! 

the corruptor is a big silly mess of an action movie , complete with pointless plot turns and gratuitous violence . 
it's not abhorrent , or even blatantly unlikable , but it doesn't make a shred of sense . 
and whose idea was it to have the director of glengarry glen ross direct an action film ? 
james foley knows a lot about characters and acting , and those are the strengths of the corruptor . 
but the quiet scenes clash with the ludicrous action nonsense , and the result is less like a movie and more like a derailed train . 
at least we have chow yun-fat in the lead role . 
chow plays nick chen , a chinatown cop . 
he's a good cop , as the first few scenes establish , and he's very familiar with chinatown . 
that's probably why the powers-that-be decide to team him up with a rookie named danny wallace ( mark wahlberg ) . 
nick and danny begin by stepping on each other's toes , but finally end up liking each other once they both get a chance to save the other one's life . 
what happens after that is kind of a mystery to me . 
i'm fairly certain that the villains are all part of the fukienese dragons , led by a young chinese psycho named bobby vu ( byron mann ) . 
i'm also pretty sure that nick is on the payroll of henry lee ( ric young ) , a gangster dealing in prostitutes and other neat stuff . 
i'm not quite sure why henry lee decides to employ danny , although this makes for some ridiculous ( albeit unpredictable ) plot twists along the way . 
there's also an interesting subplot revolving around danny's father ( brian cox ) , but it doesn't have much to do with the main story . 
one of the problems , as i said , is that the movie doesn't make any sense . 
i don't blame this entirely on foley , because he's obviously a good director . 
i'm more inclined to point my finger at robert pucci's script , which doesn't seem to be in tune to the way normal people act . 
one scene early on had me particularly annoyed : nick confronts his boss because he's angry about his new white partner . 
he's shouting and pointing his finger and stepping on the furniture , and i was thinking that i would have fired him if he had done that to me . 
 ( in addition , the film takes a bite into race-related issues , and never develops them at all . ) 
there are a lot of scenes like this one , and none of them are very coherent . 
there's also a considerable language barrier , given that chow and some of the other actors have thick chinese accents . 
the plot itself never straightens out . 
i'm not sure who or what the fukienese dragons are , or why henry lee is associated with them , or what they do as a group . 
the corruptor is an action movie , and so all these weird plot developments are decorated with loud and violent action sequences . 
the sequences aren't bad , but they're not new ; how many car chases through chinatown have you seen ? 
on that note , how many chinatown cop movies have you seen ? 
one too many , i'd imagine . 
foley's strength is clearly in characterization , and he does a pretty good job here . 
the scenes between nick and danny are very good , and i actually got a feel for their characters ; a bond forms between them that holds parts of the film together . 
chow and wahlberg are both good actors ; chow is a pro , and can do this kind of stuff in his sleep . 
wahlberg seems less at home in this atmosphere , but he's still fun to watch . 
i also liked the subplot involving danny's father ; brian cox's performance is powerful , and his character makes a compelling moral compass for danny . 
but the film ultimately fails , mostly at the hands of insane incoherence and overly-familiar action scenes . 
a complicated plot can be successful , but the story needs to make sense when it's over . 
the corruptor never manages to make any sense -- it just keeps spinning out of control until , finally , there's nothing left to hold on to . 

andrew lloyd webber's musicals , preferably his early work with lyricist tim rice , present a musical which is totally unlike any musical before its time . 
webber and rice do not subscribe to the gaity of such musicals as " oklahoma ! , " or the slapstickness of shows like " a funny thing happened on the way to the forum . " 
they instead tackle hot issues from our past , and view them differently , and pack them together with redundant , catchy music , as well as thoughtful lyrics . 
like " jesus christ superstar , " which examined the rise and fall of jesus in his last days from a fame perspective ( in the cool tune " superstar , " a dead judas comes back from the dead to ask jesus why he didn't spread his message wider ) , " evita " takes an inventive stance on its topic , this time being the famed wife of argentinian dictator , juan per ? n , eva , who slept her way to the top and became famous chiefly because she got attention , much like the woman playing her : madonna ( although i think madonna did rise to the top for her musical talent , among other things ) . 
 " evita " deals with the rise and fall of eva per ? n , a woman who captured the heart of the nation after marrying juan ( jonathan pryce ) , then died at the young age of 33 , creating an international stir of mourning not unlike that of princess di ( the two do share a bit in common , although it wasn't like di slept to " the top " ) . 
webber and rice sure chose bizarre topics for their musicals , but they always have a point for doing it . 
here , they wish to expose her for what she is , but still show that despite all of her many drawbacks , her lying , and covering up for her fascist husband , but show that she was still a good woman with fairly good intentions , and her death was very sad . 
it's also a musical , with almost no words not unsung . 
the film plays like a rock opera , much like their " jesus christ superstar , " with many giant musical sequences just like the old musicals , even if they do possess very intelligent lyrics , which create not only an intellectually enlightening experience , but also a very entertaining one . 
after all , this is a musical , and webber's musicals never undermine this . 
they are a balance of energy and intellectual depth , walking on a fine line between the both , and never stumbling on either side . 
this is why the beginning of " evita " is kind of a let-down . 
okay , it is a let-down . 
i'm not saying the opening moments are bad , because they're pretty good . 
but what comes after is a lifeless , un-entertaining , and totally unrewarding sequence where she cons a singer ( jimmy nail ) into taking eva to buenos aires after a one-night stand . 
in the musical , it's a fun , energetic sequence , culiminating in the show stopper , " buenos aires , " which is also lifeless . 
then a punch is pulled as we see eva being screwed over by the singer , instead of her leaving him , where she ends up singing the sad tune , " another suitcase in another hall , " which was meant for a later character , screwed over by eva . 
the portrayal of eva in the beginning is too soft , seeming like parker and oliver stone , who adapted it for the screen , are afraid to present her for what she is , even while it's being narrated by a hater of eva's , the omnipotent ( antonio banderas ) , who presents her in a negative light . 
for a while , it looks like alan parker can't pull it off . 
however , the film pulls itself together in a flash , and after that song is over , and the giddily nihilistic song " goodbye and thank you , " where we see eva go through a long line of lovers who help her ascend , is magnificent , darkly comical , and just gleeful . 
from this point on , the film is hypnotic , satisfying , and satirical . 
no more punches are thrown , and the basic outline of the original musical are in tact . 
we see eva woo and marry juan , get him out of jail , rise to stardom , falter a bit , come back , and then gradually die of cancer ( i think it was because of cancer ) . 
more importantly , many of the themes from the musical carry on with this , as well as some filling-in-the-gaps reconnassaince work . 
juan , who is pretty underwritten in the musical , is given some extra scenes , and exposed as what he was for eva : an accessory . 
a muted scene where he tries to visit her respective room but is shunned allows us to learn more about juan , and understand his sadness more than we did before . 
>from the " goodbye and thank you " number on , the film shows eva trying to cover up for the horrible government by doing cheap and petty things which wooed a nation , and saved a government , even while it left the nation's people downtrodden . 
but despite this , the nation still loved eva , and when she slipped into death , the world mourned her because she was a star . 
that's when our narrator , ch ? , comes out to show that she wasn't the great woman she really was , and expose her fame . 
describing this character is difficult , mainly because he has no real realistic background ( he's said to be based on the revolutionary ch ? guevera , but the two probably could have never met , like they do in the film ) , but he serves as a perspective on eva , but even his perspective can't help us from feeling bad when eva dies a pathetic death . 
alan parker , no stranger to bizarre musicals ( he's done " fame , " " the committments , " " bugsy malone , " and " pink floyd the wall " - the latter which is absolutely brilliant ) , nails the film , exposing everything for what it is . 
we cry for evita at the end because we feel we should , by the way it is presented . 
his direction is manipulative for a reason : to show the mourning for what it is . 
and there is energy throughout , with lots of bright colors , and scenes which are cinematically entertaning , as well as enriching and deep , such as the balcony scene where she sings " don't cry for me , argentina , " and her death sequence , which is poignant becuase of how sad it is . 
madonna's golden globe winning performance is much like the movie : starts kinda downhill then goes up quickly , remaning there for the rest of the film . 
at the beginning , she looks like she's too busy concentrating on her singing to act , but she eventually gets it right , though never really getting the presence of , say , patti lupone ( who did the role in its american premiere back in the late 70s ) . 
her death , though , is brilliant . 
her singing could be better though . 
i know she took lessons to improve her range and all , but it still sounds like she's trying to hard . 
she sounds way too soft in several places where she should be comanding ( like . . . patti 
lupone - i heard her sing on an old " evita " cd , and you could just feel her stage presence without even seeing her ) . 
but it's generally very good , although not up to the brilliance the role really requires . 
antonio banderas , who is almost like a guilty pleasure these days ( i'm one of the few people who thinks he rocks ) , is extremely comanding in his performance , presenting a lovable narrator . 
his singing is very good , though nothing compared to the original , mandy patinkin . 
he does have a pretty good singing voice , and a great range . 
and jonathan pryce is pretty awesome , although very brief at times , in his role as juan , seeming to put on a poker face for his melancholy facade . 
although it gets off to a rocky start ( " rocky " 's polite for what it really is ) , it soon picks up and becomes a wonderully poignant musical . 
like the other musical released in '96 ( woody allen's " everyone says i love you " ) , it's a reminder that the hollywood musical may be dead , but it can come back every now and then for a brief performance . 

susan granger's review of " mulholland drive " ( universal focus ) 
whatever david lynch is selling , i'm not buying . 
from the writer/director of " blue velvet " and " twin peaks " comes another dark , mysterious thriller that opens with an automobile accident on mulholland drive , the serpentine street that twists high in the hollywood hills . 
dazed , a beautiful brunette ( laura elena harring ) emerges and stumbles down a hill , slipping unobserved into a '30s-style apartment as the tenant leaves for a trip . 
the next morning , a dewy blonde ( naomi watts ) from deep river , ontario , arrives in la with dreams of stardom in her suitcase . 
her aunt owns the apartment and the two women meet . 
the brunette has amnesia so the blonde tries to help her discover her identity along with her latent lesbian lust . 
meanwhile , a hotshot director ( justin theroux ) , whose wife is in bed with the poolman , is forced to cast a certain actress in his new film and there's an assassin ( mark pellegrino ) roaming the city . 
the tortuous paths of these various characters - and others named cookie , coco and cowboy - intersect at various points but the plot remains elusive because , midway through the story , lynch has the brunette and blonde play two different women in an alternate reality , leaving a huge wad of cash , a blue metallic key , a paralyzed mogul and a lot of questions that go unanswered . 
elena harring and particularly naomi watts are gifted actresses , effectively making the subtle switch . 
the same cannot be said for former m . g . m . 
dancer ann miller who's stiff and self-conscious , speaking - like most lynch players - in staccato tones . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " mulholland drive " is a frenzied , frustrating 4 . originally designed as an episodic tv pilot , this surreal triumph of suspenseful style over substance is packaged as a puzzle with several of the key pieces left out . 

the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun in the eighties . 
produce something , anything , that will get the high school and junior high kids in the theater because they buy more soda and popcorn than senior citizens . 
the usual hallmarks of this filmmaking tradition are all here . 
gross humor , sex jokes , silly sight gags , more sex jokes . 
and the film is a strong contender in the current race to be cruder , grosser and more outrageous than that last film . 
what the film is not , however , is funny . 
the plot centers around the return of dr . evil , who goes back in time to steal austin powers' mojo ( a liquid with red stuff in it extracted from austin's pelvis ) which gives austin his sexual prowess and the charisma to defeat his enemies . 
austin must go after him , and returns to the swinging sixties where free love and sexy secret agents had their heyday . 
i almost avoided this film because i did not like the original . 
but the films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicle and the film received many good reviews . 
i wish i had stuck to my first impression . 
myers is trying to be the jerry lewis of this generation . 
and he has the talent to do it , at least as an actor . 
but the material he is working with here , much of it his own , falls short of anything resembling comic genius . 
this movie tries to carry the day with sight gags about drinking distilled feces , a five-hundred-pound fat man's butt crack , and a barrage of sex jokes aimed at the level of the average 15 year old . 
after some of these scenes , one has to wonder how gross the next generation of films will have to go to get an audiences attention . 
the direction also helps the film achieve a new low point in cinematic humor . 
for the most part , i felt as if i was watching a saturday morning chalderns live action tv show . 
there is no sense of comic timing or subtlety . 
the director just throws the material at us , giving us nothing except the hope that anyone with a camera could be a film director . 
i am sure the film will have appeal to many of the under 22 crowd , at least the one's who have yet to discover literacy . 
certainly the movie is directed towards the generation that prefers everything described as 'in your face , kick you in the teeth , take no prisoners , ( action-verb +blah blah blah ) . ' 
if you see the film and you find you're not laughing , there is nothing wrong with you . 
it just means you grew up since seventh grade . 

three things i learned from " being john malkovich " : when getting on the elevator for your first day of work on the 7 1/2th floor of a building , always bring your crowbar ; don't stand in the way of your wife's actualization as a man ; and , whenever entering a portal into the mind of another human being , wear old clothes , because , hey , it's muddy in there . 
 " being john malkovich " is the most original film to come down the pike in a very long time . 
wildly surrealistic , yet presented in a down-to-earth , funky style , this is the kind of movie that sticks in your head . 
after savoring the sheer inventiveness of the storyline , you roll around the wealth of ideas contained within it . 
from the ethics of relationships and politics of immortality to the very nature of identity itself , there's a lot to think about here . 
just don't forget to have fun . 
clearly , all parties involved in the making of the film certainly did , starting with writer charles kaufman . 
 " i wrote 'being john malkovich' without an outline , " he explains in the press notes , " blindly , with no sense of direction or purpose . 
it's important to me that i don't have a map before i start . 
this allows me to surprise myself , stay engaged , discover things , and , hopefully , allow the unconscious to surface . " 
spike jonze ( mark wahlberg's na ? ve buddy in " three kings " ) takes it from there . 
the white-hot director of the beastie boy's " sabotage , " an award-winning parody of '70s tv cop shows , as well as numerous other music videos and commercials , eschews typical mtv flash for his feature film debut . 
jonze wisely realized that a storyline this unusual is most effectively presented in a low-key style . 
his flat , matter-of-fact approach works perfectly . 
and then there's the cast . 
john cusack plays control freak craig schwartz , a street performer who periodically gets decked by parents objecting to his remarkably expressive , but decidedly erotic puppet shows . 
over the years , his marriage to obsessive pet store employee lotte ( cameron diaz ) has devolved . 
once passionate lovers , the two are now little more than courteous roommates . 
financially strapped , craig takes a job as an entry-level file clerk at lestercorp , located on the 7 1/2th floor of a manhattan building . 
navigating around dr . lester ( orson bean ) , his 105 year-old boss and floris ( mary kay place ) , lester's dotty secretary , craig tries to settle into his new position , but two things keep him distracted . 
first , there's the beautiful and imperious maxine ( catherine keener ) , who delights in tormenting craig over his obvious lust for her . 
and then there's the hole behind the file cabinet , which turns out to be a portal into the mind of actor john malkovich . 
craig learns that anyone who enters the portal gets whooshed into the subconscious of malkovich , where they can experience life from his point of view ( with enough concentration , you can even influence his actions ) . 
after 15 minutes , the visitor gets ejected and unceremoniously dumped in a ditch on the side of the new jersey turnpike . 
then things get a little weird . 
by the way , if you're concerned that i gave away too much of the plot , rest assured - - i barely scratched the surface . 
one of the most satisfying aspects of the fable is that kaufman is not content to simply milk laughs from his bizarre set-up . 
instead , he crawls into the dark premise as completely as craig crawls into malkovich , rummaging around and toying with the various philosophical implications of compromising another person's identity . 
he also examines the consequences of the malko-visits to craig , lotte , maxine and , of course , john malkovich himself . 
the performances are superb . 
malkovich ( best known to mainstream audiences for his work in " dangerous liaisons , " " in the line of fire , " and as head psychopath in the guilty-pleasure " con air " ) tweaks his own image in a dandy self-deprecating turn . 
far from his effete , vaguely reptilian persona , this malkovich is just another schlub , drinking with his pals and trying to get laid ( incidentally , charlie sheen also plays himself in a hilarious parody of his well-earned bad boy reputation ) . 
as always , john cusack nails his part , handily pulling viewers along even as craig's actions become unconscionable . 
the big surprises come from catherine keener and cameron diaz , both playing against type . 
kenner , usually cast in icy subordinate roles , is terrific as a highly intelligent , extremely manipulative femme fatale . 
cameron diaz , barely recognizable under a mess of brown , curly hair , sheds her perpetually sunny smile and draws big laughs as a woman thrown into extreme sexual confusion after taking a ride in malkovich . 
 " being john malkovich " stumbles towards the end , as jonze and kaufman try too hard to resolve the various subplots . 
additional characters and increasingly complex explanations lead to a cluttered finale . 
regardless , this contemporary " alice in wonderland " is a real treat . 
i enjoyed watching " being john malkovich , " but only later , after reflecting on the film , did its resonance fully hit me . 
at one point , craig says , " do you know what a metaphysical can of worms this portal is ? " 
truer words were never spoken . 

the year is barely a week old , and there is already a candidate for the worst of 1997--the relic , a would-be chiller that's more successful at making the audience laugh than scream . 
in this ridiculous film from uberhack peter hyams ( whose last two pictures were dreadful jean-claude van damme vehicles ) , a creature that feeds on the hypothalamuses ( hypothalamii ? ) of humans and animals goes on a killing spree in a chicago museum . 
how did this creature come into existence , and why does it feed on hormones ? 
the " scientific " explanation cooked up by the four--yes , four--credited screenwriters ( amy holden jones , john raffo , rick jaffa , and amanda silver ) takes " suspension of disbelief " to new heights , even by monster movie standards . 
but as cockamamie as the science is in the film , it isn't quite as hard to swallow as the casting of the clueless penelope ann miller as a brilliant molecular biologist who specializes in evolutionary genetics . 
miller acts as if she wants an oscar nomination , turning every scene that requires the slightest display of emotion into an overblown oscar clip , complete with piercing wails and glycerine tears . 
give it up , penelope--it's a _monster_movie_ . 
on the flip side , tom sizemore just phones in his performance as a police lieutenant , but his role is so thankless that it's hard to imagine it being played any more effectively . 
it's quite funny to see a film indulge , with the straightest of faces , in all those cheesy horror movie cliches that wes craven lampooned so well ( and so recently ) in scream . 
for example , in one early scene , a museum security guard goes into a bathroom stall late at night . 
ok , we all know what's coming , but as if we didn't need any more confirmation , he pulls out a joint and starts puffing away . 
everyone knows what happens to people who do drugs in a scary movie . 
and later , miller frantically runs out of a museum exhibit after she hears some suspicious heavy breathing . 
does she make a beeline for the front door ? 
of course not--she runs into the ladies room and cowers in a stall . 
with all the cliches , it is only fitting the film's climax offers what is perhaps the most overused one in recent film : that of someone outrunning a fireball . 
if the relic is truly " the next evolution in terror " as the poster states , then the horror film--and humanity--is in even worse shape than we thought . 

these days the lack of originality in hollywood reflects itself in the deluge of remakes . 
but , only a few years ago , before wes craven publicly made fun of the practice , sequels had been more popular among hollywood producers . 
sequels also used to be popular among directors and movie stars whose careers went south . 
the way to regain popularity and prestige , they thought , was the use the same formulas , characters and story lines that brought them success in the first place . 
one of such celebrity was eddie murphy , black comedian of 1980s whose career was in big decline during the first part of this decade . 
in order to return to the spotlight , he chose to resurrect the franchise created by his most popular film , beverly hills cop , 1984 action comedy that had already spawned the sequel in 1987 . 
seven years later , for the third instalment , he used the directorial service of john landis , another fading star , with whom he successfully collaborated twice - in trading places and coming to america . 
this time , however , third time wasn't the charm and beverly hills iii was failure . 
eddie murphy had to wait few more years for real comeback . 
eddie murphy here plays axel foley , fast-talking streetwise detroit policeman , who raids illegal chop shop . 
the routine police action ends in tragedy , when the criminals kill foley's boss . 
determined to bring the killers to justice , foley realises that their leader is ellis de wald ( timothy carhart ) . 
when it turns out that de wald happens to be security chief for wonderland theme park in los angeles , foley goes back to los angeles . 
there , with the help of his old friend , local policeman rosewood ( judge rheinhold ) , foley would clash with money counterfeit ring . 
ten years has passed since the original and times are definitely different . 
in this decade , the contrast between blue collar detroit and yuppie beverly hills , which provided a lot of gags in 1984 film , simply doesn't work . 
screenwriter steven e . de souza provides another conflict , this time between the childish sillyness of the good guys and business-like professionalism of the bad guys . 
since foley belongs to the former , his character had to watch his language , and the tone of the film in general is more infantile . 
unfortunately , this film still belongs to action movie genre , and there is too much violence for little children . 
nice example is the humorous scene in the beginning , which turns into standard ramboesque bloodbath . 
unlike donner with the lethal weapon series , landis simply can't balance the comedy with " regular " action , and the result is a film that fails in both aspects . 
action scenes are sometimes interesting , but not too spectacular ( at the end , scenery of wonderland is more fascinating than the action itself ) ; humour , on the other hand , falls flat . 
to make even worse , some minor characters from 1984 film gets unnecessary and sometimes irritating overexposure ( especially art expert turned into arms dealer , played by bronson pinchot ) . 
in the end , although the film provided some entertainment , viewers , at least critical ones , would probably be happy to know that there aren't any plans for beverly hills iv . 

once upon a time a solitary ogre named shrek ( mike myers ) was really annoyed to discover that his swamp had been invaded by three blind mice , seven dwarves and all the other fairy tale characters in the land , banished from their home by lord farquaad ( john lithgow ) . 
unwittingly befriended by a non-stop talking donkey ( eddie murphy ) , shrek travels to dulloc to speak with farquaad , where he stumbles into a joust and comes up the winner . 
his prize ? 
to save princess fiona ( cameron diaz ) from a tower surrounded by molten flame and protected by a dragon so she can become farquaad's bride . 
the ogre agrees to the task in return for getting his solitary lifestyle back in " shrek . " 
it took four writers ( ted elliott and terry rossio ( " the road to el dorado " ) , roger s . h . 
schulman ( " balto " ) and joe stillman ( " beavis and butthead do america " ) ) to adapt william steig's children's book . 
the bad news ? 
they've genericized an already simple plotline while heavily under the influence of william goldman's " the princess bride . " 
the good news ? 
there's so much wacky humor culled from both fairy tales and popular culture that this movie should keep you in stitches . 
we get our first inkling that we're in for a real treat as one of farquaad's men , intent on rounding up magical creatures offers 'five schillings for the possessed boy ! ' after observing dreamworks' rendition of disney's animated pinocchio . 
meanwhile within the castle walls , a gingerbread man being tortured 
by farquaad spits icing and yells 'eat me ! ' 
before breaking down and solemnly asking 'do you know the muffin man ? ' 
shrek , a green giant with bobbly antennae-like ears , is a grumpy recluse who really yearns to fit in ( although who could put up with his habit of making candles from his own ear wax ? ) . 
donkey is a hyperactive , endearingly stunted creature who can talk and , therefore , believes will make a great misfit pairing with the uncooperative shrek . 
donkey proves his worth sweet talking the princess-guarding dragon . 
the princess proves to be more than a shade offbeat after learning she's not getting the fairy tale issue rescue she's been expecting . 
when fiona's true colors are exposed ( including opportunies for some tomboyish gross out humor ) , a spark develops between her and shrek . 
the script's details are gleefully impish , constantly poking fun at disney from the theme park world of farquaad's dulloc with its turnstyle entrance and 'it's a small world' parody of an information booth to the blue bird which meets a most un-disneyish fate after duetting with fiona 'snow white' style . 
popular culture is represented with film references to " babe " and " charlies' angels " via " the matrix . " 
myers chooses his 'so i married an axe murderer' scottish brogue for shrek in order to give his voice some heft . 
while this may prove distracting for anyone familiar with that film , overall it works more than not . 
eddie murphy steals the show as the fast-talking , motown-singing donkey , proving once again his talent as a vocal performer ( is it another wink at disney that donkey is paired with a dragon , a creature murphy portrayed in disney's 'mulan ? ' ) . 
lithgow's a good choice for the supercilious , height-challenged villain lord farquaad . 
diaz is energetic but ultimately nondescript voicing princess fiona . 
 ( a better choice would have been minnie driver , who's proven herself a terrific vocal talent in such diverse animations as disney's " tarzan , " " princess mononoke " and the " south park " movie . ) 
the computer animation looks terrific ( particularly donkey ) , although it won't elicit the types of oohs and aahs of pixar's work ( " toy story , " " a bug's life , " " toy story 2 " ) . 
in keeping with its hip style , pop music is used , which like myer's voice may be initially jarring , but ultimately satisfies ( while surveying bridal candidates via a 'dating game' parody broadcast by snow white's evil queen's mirror , farquaad is told 'fiona likes pina coladas' - cue jimmy buffet ! ) . 
 " shrek " has good lessons for kids and humor targetted at every age group in the family . 
while it may be derivative of the 1987's " the princess bride , " " shrek " addresses a new generation with similar sensibilities and doesn't suffer in the comparison . 

usually when a blockbuster comes out , it's loaded with effects , stars , bad scripts , and plenty of action . 
mystery men may contain an all-star cast , and efects , but the clever script and characters are what really works , which is rare to see this year . 
the film is based upon the comic book series " the flaming carrot " by bob burden , in which 3 wanna be super heroes try and fight crime , only to be out done by the real hero of champion city , captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) . 
things go a little haywire , when the sinister casanova frankenstein ( geoffrey rush ) is released into the city , where he captures captain amazing , and plans to wreak havoc upon champion city . 
well , the trio decide to take matters in their own hands , by saving the city , but first they need some assitance . 
this is where the film takes a turn for the better . 
in the beggining , there were only 3 wanna be heroes . 
 " blue raja ( hank azaria ) , " mr . furious ( ben stiller ) and " the shoveller ( william h . macy ) . 
sure they were enterataining , but their acts grew old fast . 
that is until they aquire " invisible boy " ( kel mitchell ) , and " the bowler " ( janeane garafalo ) and " mr . splein " ( paul reubens ) , 2 of which rescue the film from becoming a disastorous mess . 
thankfully , the original 3 heroes become amusing , with some support of reuben and garfalo on screen . 
the whole premise is rather ridiculous , but packs a few punches to keep interest . 
for one , the film is considerably clever . 
it literally pokes fun at super hero films , like batman and robin , superman etc . in fact , many scenes are similar to batman and robin , including the opening sequence , only altered in a humorous and superior way . 
a part of the cleverness comes from the cast . 
sometimes a film with such talent is overblown , but the acting is what keeps it alive here . 
while azaria and macy were enteratining , 2 characters really stood out . 
one was paul reuben . 
no matter how disgusting or revolting " mr . splein " may be , you still can't help but laugh . 
it' so incredibly moronic , it's just a riot watching reuben relieve himself of bodily functions . 
janeane garafalo also was an interesting character . 
she seemed to be the most outgoing and convincing character on screem , due to her enthusiasm , that kept the film flowing . 
men is worth seeing alone , for those 2 troubled heroes . 
on the downside , a few of the heroes and especially the villain never really lift off . 
kel mitchell and geoffrey rush , were both utterly useless . 
their parts were so limited , they'd be lucky at all to be on screen for more than 20 minutes . 
ben stiller too was wasted , mostly because of his unlikeable power and dialogue . 
none of these characters get a rise out of anybody , but happily they are lost in the charming flow of the film . 
as far as the budget goes , it was wisely spent on the cast , not the effects . 
while the set designs and action all look nice , i'm glad there was a seperate aspect , that the film focused on , and for that i applaud . 
slow at times , and rather pointless , mystery men still delivers . 
it forgets about money making , because it's not likely to make a bundle like it's proceeders , and that's what works . 
stupid ? 
maybe , but for once i'm not disappointed . 
no one expected an intelligent film , but you get a film thats wit captures your attention and makes you forget this miserable year . 

set in the wild west , this carry on centres around the arrival of the rumpo kid ( sidney james ) and his cronies in stodge city . 
his dodgy dealings and summary shootings aggravate judge burke ( kenneth williams ) so much that he asks sheriff albert earp ( jon pertwee ) to drive rumpo out of town . 
instead , the rumpo kid shoots the sheriff dead . 
therefore , judge burke sends for a law marshall to come in and clean up the city . 
due to a misunderstanding , an english sanitary engineer called marshall p . knutt ( jim dale ) is assigned , without knowing it , as the law marshall for stodge city . 
he arrives at the same time as annie oakley ( angela douglas ) who is seeking revenge for her father , the sheriff's murder . 
when marshall arrives at stodge city , he soon becomes aware of the misunderstanding and due to his rather limited intellect , he is manipulated by the rumpo kid and always ends up getting things wrong . 
in the end , there is a head-to-head between rumpo and marshall . 
with the rumpo's past experience , it would seem that marshall is out of his depth , but using his sanitary skills and learning the ways of the west from annie oakley , he at least stands some chance ! 
sid james , with an american accent , is perfect as the rumpo kid , a part which suits him down to the ground . 
jim dale provides one of his best carry on performances as the stupid sanitary engineer , and angela douglas is very effective in her role as the revengeful daughter . 
other regulars that appear in this movie include charles hawtrey and bernard bresslaw ( in his debut ) as big heap and little heap respectively . 
big heap is the local indian leader and the crazy casting of hawtrey for this part is very amusing , as is his performance : - he steals every scene he is in even though he does not enter the film until thirty minutes past . 
joan sims provides useful and amusing support as belle , the local bar owner who takes a fancy to the rumpo kid . 
however , the part of doc played by peter butterworth and sheriff albert earp played by jon pertwee are not really necessary , and pertwee's performance is rather poor . 
kenneth williams uses a new voice but struggles with the weak part of the 'judge' . 
even so , this carry on was sid james and kenneth williams' favourite . 
a very different carry on film , in that it is played more seriously by the actors and possesses more realism than any other carry on . 
the death count is the highest of any carry on film . 
sets , costumes and action sequences are all very commendable . 
the songs that are included in the movie ( the title song and annie's song ) are very impressive . 
a strange but therefore very interesting carry on film . 
not the best of its kind but it is certainly the most distinctive film of the series . 

 " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin . 
charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name . 
there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east . 
mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt . 
and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim . 
the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police . 
john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder . 
karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense . 
when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities . 
he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway . 
two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background . 
charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters . 
the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers . 
the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other . 
she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim . 
will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town . 
harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped . 
with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s . 
my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train . 
is hitchcock's version better ? 
of course . 
is this one worth watching as well ? 
actually , yes . 
shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 . 
it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 

an unhappy italian housewife , a lonely waiter , a goofy masseuse , lots of love , and gorgeous scenery all come together in bread and tulips , which proves charming despite its covering of predictable , well-worn material . 
the story concerns the aforementioned housewife , rosalba barletta ( licia maglietta ) who accidentally becomes separated from her immediate family while on vacation . 
instead of waiting for a ride home , rosalba opts not to go home to her italian town , but to instead hitchhike to venice . 
upon arriving , she tells her self-centered husband , mimmo ( an excellent antonio catania ) that she'll be home in a few days . 
of course , that doesn't happen , as rosalba quickly gains a level of independence that has been unattainable in her past life of scrubbing floors and buying groceries . 
in what seems like days , she moves in with lonely , suicidal waiter fernando ( bruno ganz ) , gets a job as a florist , learns the accordion , and befriends her neighbor -- a wacky holistic masseuse named grazia ( marina massironi ) . 
rosalba , who is first seen wearing a gaudy stretch pants outfit , starts wearing sexy dresses and getting closer to fernando . 
i can think of at least five other ( american ) movies ( including fried green tomatoes and an unmarried woman ) that are more than similar to bread and tulips . 
but maglietta and ganz , who act with restraint and care , help bread and tulips from becoming a tired retread . 
ganz plays the suicidal waiter role with a solemn , sometimes playful dignity that is a joy to watch , while maglietta never overreacts to her growing comfort with the outside world . 
throughout the movie , maglietta has an easygoing , confident demeanor , which makes it very easy to root for her and her growing attraction for ganz's character . 
the gorgeous scenery of moonlit town squares and sparkling rivers provides a perfect love story backdrop -- you just might want to ask the attractive stranger in the seat behind you for coffee after the lights come up . 
director and co-writer silvio soldini must get credit for sprinkling the movie with effective goofy humor . 
the cheap mimmo , desperate to find his wife ( after all , he needs his shirts ironed and his mistress won't do it ) , hires a job applicant ( giuseppe battiston ) at his bathroom supply firm to do the job . 
the reason ? 
mimmo discovers that the prospective plumber loves detective stories . 
the novice detective's various misfortunes , including him saying goodbye to his weepy mother , are very funny . 
unfortunately , there are flaws that somewhat spoil bread and tulips' cheery tone . 
rosalba is bothered by several surreal dreams during her time in venice , which bring the movie to a halt . 
it's like putting a gunfight in a nora ephron movie . 
several details in fernando's life also never get proper closure , including his suicidal tendencies . 
early in the movie , he nearly hangs himself before rosalba knocks on his apartment door . 
after that , fernando's step towards death is never made reference to , probably because soldini wanted to include a lukewarm , underdeveloped subplot about fernando's stormy past . 
it seems more like a desperate attempt to pump up the drama in a plot that doesn't need any . 
but there aren't a lot of overwhelming negatives in bread and tulips . 
the movie is fun and romantic , with beautiful scenery and characters whose lives we'd like to live if we had the nerve . . . 
or if our passports weren't missing . 

capsule : suprisingly more of a comedy than a straight action flick , which isn't necessarily a bad thing . 
not exactly oscar caliber , but one helluva bullet-riddled good time . 
extended review : you know , i remember when hitmen were evil , murderous scum . 
alas , the times are a-changin' . 
in a recent string of movies , hitmen are suddenly wise- cracking , fun-loving killers-with-hearts . 
this brings us to hong kong director kirk wong's first american feature , the big hit . 
oddly enough , about the same time last year a similar film , grosse point blank , was released . 
advertised as a quirky comedy with hints of action , it turned out to have a suprising dosage of it . 
the big hit is quite the opposite . 
it was hyped as " the new film from producer john woo " , so one would it expect lots of stylized killing and action . 
however , there's a sore lack of it , which is about the only thing wrong with the big hit . 
the film starts out with mel smiley and his cohorts doing a job on a white slaver . 
mel , played by mark wahlberg in a dopey , milquetoast role , is a killing machine ; he flips , spins , even breakdances whilst popping caps . 
sadly , he doesn't get a chance to do much of it . 
except for the beginning set piece and the last 20 twenty minutes or so , the film is in comedy mode . 
the action , at least what there is of it , is prime cut stuff . 
wong , after numerous hong kong features , makes quite a nice u . s . debut . 
however , his pacing is a bit off , with the action sequences only bookending the movie and not lasting long enough . 
they start off electrifying and fresh , but just kinda stop . 
normally , this would hamper a movie to the point of being unenjoyable . 
luckily , we have ben ramsey's screenplay , a bitingly funny piece of work . 
the only problem is there might be too much humor , one joke makes you laugh so hard you miss the next few . 
some of best gags include an oriental film maker down on his luck and one of mel's hitmen pals that has just discovered onanism . 
the only problem is how some of the minor characters are handled , some being there only for a laugh , which sometimes works , sometimes doesn't . 
overall , the big hit may have it's flaws , but it makes up for them in a stylishly directed , gut-wrenchingly funny joyride . 
definately one of the better ways to spend two hours . 

pitch black is a sheep in wolf's clothing . 
it is full of darkness , danger and violence and if you buy into the marketing hype , an unsettling and scary film going experience . 
don't be fooled . 
pitch black is a morality play masquerading as a scare-fest . 
it starts off with blistering intensity . 
a cargo spaceship crash lands on a planet apparently leeched of life by the scorching heat of three suns . 
among the survivors is fry ( mitchell ) , the ship's pilot , who spends the film wrestling with the fact that she tried to jettison the other passengers in her effort to land the craft safely . 
there is imam ( david ) , an islamic leader whose faith in his god is tested repeatedly throughout the film . 
there is a law enforcement officer in the form of johns ( hauser ) , who attacks every situation with square jawed authoritarian zeal . 
and there is riddick ( diesel ) , a menacing , muscle-bound convicted murderer who's being brought back to justice by johns . 
the group quickly sizes up the situation and each other . 
confident in their assessment of matters , a plan is set in motion to escape their hellish environment . 
those plans are shredded by the appearance of one of the planet's wildlife , a predatory , sometimes winged , species that enjoys the taste of blood and flesh . 
fortunately , the creatures are light sensitive and are forced to live in networks of catacombs under the planet's surface . 
unfortunately , the group has managed to land on the planet moments before an eclipse is about to occur , taking away their one protection from the monsters . 
the group's savior comes in the form of johns , whose decisive leadership looks to deliver them from purgatory . 
or does it ? 
pitch black deviates from the standard sci-fi fare by avoiding some of the stock " escape the boogieman " conflicts the genre typically serves up . 
just as the planet gave a false facade of lifelessness , first appearances given by the survivors proves to be just as false . 
the excitement of the film comes not from the danger posed by the creatures , but rather from watching the shifting allegiances and emotional growth of the characters as the planet serves as a deus ex machina of sorts to catalyze emotional growth . 
a recurrent theme runs throughout the movie of faith , whether it be religious or in a person , and how that powers their motivations . 
i found it telling that an accidental death occurs early on due to the misperception of a self professed atheist . 
conversely , imam constantly contributes any good fortune to allah . 
one by one , his perceived heaven sent blessings are taken away and crushed . 
imam is forced to reassess his faith . 
another character expresses belief in god , along with a life long hate . 
yet another character makes a decision that echoes the sentiments of christ about selflessness and has lasting repercussions for several of group . 
it is a fascinating character study hiding under the guise of a scare flick . 
special mention should be made of vin diesel , who intriguingly conveys feral menace combined with a truly mesmerizing presence . 
his character could have easily slipped into a parody of the baddass killing machine , but twohy and diesel add surprising depth to riddick . 
they can be excused for the two or three shwarzenegger-like catch phrases that growl their way out of diesel's mouth . 
the movie has its flaws that can be nitpicked . 
the creatures do look derivative of the ones in alien . 
the dialogue isn't the freshest at times , reminiscent of a bad comic book . 
yes , the appearance of riddick's vision skills are more than a little timely considering the situation . 
these trappings are on the periphery of the story twohy is really trying to tell . 
twohy may have lured you in under the pretense of scaring you with film fabricated boogieman , but he shows the real boogieman to be the prejudices and beliefs we use to direct decisions in our lives . 

 " an intimate , character-driven drama about a troubled youth at a crossroads in his life , " read the press notes for _reach_the_rock_ . 
i'm not really sure what film that statement is describing because those words bear little resemblance to the slow , completely uninvolving bore i saw--at least , it certainly does not describe what goes on for most of the film . 
alessandro nivola plays robin fleming , a troubled , directionless 21-year-old who has a penchant for breaking storefront windows in a small town . 
police sergeant phil quinn ( william sadler ) takes him in , and what ensues for the first 70 minutes is a tedious series of sneak-outs and sneak-ins where robin slips out of his jail cell , breaks a window , then returns , all without quinn ever noticing . 
also added to the pointless proceedings is some would-be humorous shenanigans involving quinn's dimwitted deputy ernie attempting to engage in clandestine patrol car sex with his girlfriend donna ( karen sillas ) . 
with a half hour ( if even that long ) remaining , director william ryan and writer john hughes ( yes , john hughes of '80s youth films and _home_alone_ ) finally approach something close to a point . 
turns out robin still pines for his high school sweetheart lise ( brooke langton ) , who has long gone on with her life , and hughes's main concern at long last reveals itself as a tired " live in the present and for the future " message . 
most moviegoers , however , will likely be asleep by that time . 
wide awake , however , is the cast , who individually tackle their showcase dramatic scenes with energy and skill--thus revealing the _real_ purpose behind this listless enterprise : to serve as a series of acting exercises . 
such a glorified workshop may have its rewards for the actors , but it leaves audiences with a booby prize . 
 ( opens october 16 ) 

warner brothers has scored another marketing coup . 
the one-two punch was started in the summer , with the release of batman forever . 
trailers for ace ventura 2 were bundled with the bat , ensuring that every jim carrey fan in the free world would know about the impending sequel . 
carrey went on to win raves as the riddler and the ever-wise warner chose halloween as the release date for the video ( $11 . 99 at wal-mart ) ; a mere two weeks before carrey's return in this marketwise , but misfired comedy . 
ace ventura : when nature calls is a painful reminder of just how grating the rubber-faced comic can be when allowed to perform within an uncontrolled environment . 
he may have been brilliant under the direction of joel schumacher , in batman forever , but , here , left to his own devices , carrey quickly wears out his welcome . 
the opening sequence is by far the best--an amusing spoof of cliffhanger , with ace performing a mountain rescue of a stranded raccoon . 
 ( you can guess what happens to mr . paws . 
hint : it sounds like splat . ) 
the plot quickly shifts to a temple in the himalayas , and then to not-so-darkest africa , where ace is on the case of a missing white bat . 
with his hair and limbs both wildly askew , carrey flies through his routine in about thirty minutes . 
the rest of the film is just more of the same . 
sure , the plot's linear , and the production values solid , but where is the scripted humor to support carrey's sloppy slathering ? 
writer and director steve oderkerk provides precious few set-ups . 
instead , carrey just mugs away , playing for the camera even when most of it isn't funny . 
the better gags have been shown in the ads , though a bit with ace emerging buck-naked from the backside of a mechanical rhino is something to see . 
though an arguable improvement over the original , ace ventura : when nature calls is still a snooze for anyone over the age of ten . 
the script is virtually devoid of wit . 
tribal mask jokes ? 
jerry lewis cameos ? 
forget it . 
if anything , the inexplicable presence of simon callow ( four weddings and a funeral ) and bob gunton ( the shawshank redemption ) suggests that working with carrey is the classical actor's ultimate challenge . 
just how long * can * they keep a straight face ? 

it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly . 
i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . " 
yet it's almost as good . 
it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral . 
elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) . 
without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton . 
the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves . 
 " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these . 
a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here . 
but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) . 
what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too . 
it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag . 
so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity . 
in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) . 
instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion . 
there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching . 
in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) . 
but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof . 
yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story . 
when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights . 
there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror . 
during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? " 
streeming through my head . 
in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then 
again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) . 
instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches . 
most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation . 
his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him . 
the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real . 
jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money . 
the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great . 
i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character . 
thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable . 
he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role . 
the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff . 
even fonda shows off her talents nicely . 
and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved . 
and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) . 
and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss . 
i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway . 
for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending . 
imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky . 
the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day . 
but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile . 
at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 

albert brooks saves the day , just in the nick of time . 
with a very poor summer for movies , brooks is just what audiences were looking for to cheer them up , and does so in a positive way . 
while this may not be his finest work , " the muse " still shakes up some delightful humor . 
in albert brook's latest comedy , he tells a story of a troubled screenwriter ( brooks ) who's losing his edge , as his business partners say . 
in desperation , he goes to see his friend jack ( jeff bridges ) , who has been a very successful screenwriter in the past . 
he asks jack for some help , and recieves word of a real life muse , that has helped him and many other directors throughout their career . 
so brooks seeks the muse named sarah ( sharon stone ) , and is suckered into buying her expensive , food etc . as a sort of payment . 
the real punch line however , doesn't come until the end . 
it really makes you wonder , how screenwriters really get their ideas , could it simply be from a friend or a bum in the street ? 
the idea itself is provoking and brooks does it in a hilarious manner . 
speaking of brooks , he was absolutely hysterical as a screenwriter . 
every time he graces the screen , i can't help but start laughing . 
albert has a very unique sense of humor that makes him a very likeable character . 
the real problem with the film lies with sharon stone . 
she wasn't likeable at all . 
brooks had the right idea with her occupation , but she never pulled through . 
in a way , she drained energy from the once funny atmosphere and left it bleak . 
luckily brooks could clean up the mess , and cover for stone's mishap . 
it was a shame that the film went slightly downhill after her appearance , because " the muse " had the potential to a be a very authentic comedy . 
on a brighter note , andie macdowell was also charming as brook's wife . 
she is always a nice addition as a supporting actress , because she has that charisma that seems to complete the atmosphere to any film she's in . 
the funniest moments in " the muse " in my opinion were the cameos by james cameron and martin scorsese . 
i mean imagine , brooks seeing these big named directors in his back yard seeking sharon stone for advice , like it was something out of the ordinary . 
it was just plain hilarious . 
it just adds to the satire joke , of how directors get ideas . 
brilliant move by brooks . 
as i mentioned before , the film is a satire much like it's proceeder bowfinger , which came out a few weeks before . 
unlike bowfinger , this is not a mean spirited film that's desperate for jokes , it's rather a witty and humorous look at hollywood . 
 " bowfinger " had it's moments , but had quite a few problems that were never worked out , but " the muse " still managed to keep the laughs despite a bit of a detour . 
by the end of the film , you're glad to see a good hearty comedy come out of it . 
for once i'm not fully disappointed , because the film didn't slow down , it kept moving , even with some flaws . 
thumbs up to brooks for his brave effort . 
i think he'll still manage to keep his edge around well into the future . 

i was born in 1970 , which makes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons , 8 tracks and disco . 
however , since i was 17 years old i've seen more than my share of adult films . 
i mention this only because i thinks its important to state up front that i'm not against pornogrpahy . 
i've seen enough of these films to know the range of content and quality available . 
director paul thomas anderson's boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema , the mid to late 70s . 
this was the period when x-rated movies were real movies , shot on film , shown in movie theaters and even reviewed by legitimate critics . 
this was an age when porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films , films that attempted to tell a real story . 
one of the more fascinating aspects of this film is how , like in an any other billion dollar industry , the creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon make them obsolete . 
in this case , the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette . 
burt reynold's manages to resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur , known as jack horner . 
horner's has a steady " family " of performers , some of whom live in his plush l . a . home . 
but in the world of porn , performers are a commodity - the fresher , the better . 
when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque , he decides to add him to his stable . 
it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric rise and fall for a young man reaching his prime and an old man rapidly speeding past his . 
as directed by anderson , the camera moves through many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence and an almost childlike curiosity to peer beyond the closed door . 
boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly of l . a . 's hardcore film scene . 
but the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends . 
the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seeing things we wish we hadnut . 
by the film's final image , what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame and the high price of realizing your dreams . 
boogie nights is not about sex . 
it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers . 
in fact , the film isn't really about pornography at all . 
pornography is merely the setting to tell a compelling story about a lost and forgotten group of people who form their own sub-culture to find acceptance of who they are . 
the film goes to brilliant , often hilarious and sometimes harrowing lengths to show us that the people who choose to produce or perform in these films are generally not all that bright and lack the basic tools to function in the mainstream world . 
yet , like in the lauded tarantino films , these people still have their own moral code , their own concepts of integrity and their own needs to experess themselves creatively . 
the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion . 
first stop , the den mother ( julianne moore ) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries to retain custody of her son . 
second stop , the cuckold crewman ( william h . macy ) who keeps discovering his wife having sex with anyone and everyone ( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real-life porn star nina hartley ) . 
but the driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams . 
eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it . 
with no real ambition of his own , he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame . 
his alcoholic mother , clearly dissatisfied with her own lot , abuses him verbally and drives him out of the house . 
horner introduces him to amber waves ( moore ) who immediately adopts him , a nuclear family is born . 
the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves and her " babies " provides some of the films most poignant scenes . 
clearly , she is not even fit to manage her own life , let alone nurture these lost children . 
but the need to love and be loved is so strong , they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to . 
even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like the love she offers is similar to being in a real family . 
then again , perhaps its not so different from real families at all . 
eddie adams , who later takes on the screen name " dirk diggler " , is skillfully acted by former pop-star , mark wahlberg . 
i say " former " pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job . 
this is bold and brave territory for such a young man . 
he pulls it off marvelously . 
wahlberg is a " big , bright star " with a big bright future . 
boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt , without the first amendment preachiness . 
its intimate studies of character make it the superior film . 
wahlberg's surprising performance is on par with woody harrelson's . 
but in my opinion , boogie nights , is not the best film of the year . 
i got the feeling that itus 2 1/2 hour running time could have been cut by 15 or 20 minutes without losing any of its resonance . 
still , if the subject matter of this film intimidates you , thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing , but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway . . . ya 
know , kinda like disco . 

richard linklater's " slacker , " made in 1991 for a budget of only $23 , 000 , immerses itself in the twentysomething , college-town culture of austin , texas . 
most of these characters are either unemployed or work jobs that are apparently too menial to be worth mentioning . 
their lifestyle is a sort of passive resistance to the idea that people should go out and actively pursue a career after graduation ; they seem content to sit around spouting off about the inadequacy of american democracy , the pervasiveness of slave morality , the subtle messages in pop culture , and such . 
ask them what they've been doing lately , and they'll more likely than not reply , " oh , you know , just hanging out . " 
linklater uses an interesting technique to examine these characters : the camera follows one person for a few minutes , then someone else walks by and the camera follows that person , who walks into a diner just as another person is walking out the door . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
it's certainly a lot of fun listening to these characters talk : some of them are clearly very intelligent and have some genuinely insightful ideas , some of them are just plain weird , and some of them think their ideas are a lot more profound than they really are . 
the opening monologue , delivered by linklater himself to a taxi driver , tosses around ideas about alternate realities that nicely set up the meandering structure of the film . 
other characters along the way offer observations about everything from dating relationships to the history of anarchist philosophy , while groups of pseudo-intellectuals kick around ideas about the nobility of sitting around and doing nothing or the subtle bribery-based morality in " scooby-doo . " 
for the most part , however , the best moments are the ones involving the slightly unhinged types . 
near the beginning , a paranoid man follows a pedestrian for several blocks , warning him about government conspiracies involving everything from global warming to secret colonization of mars . 
another man seems to be collecting televisions , keeping at least fifteen sets running at the same time and playing tapes of a graduate student who recorded himself having a nervous breakdown and destroying the camera . 
and in a scene that drew a big laugh from everyone present when i saw the film , a man tries to achieve closure after a failed relationship by reciting poetry on a bridge and then throwing a typewriter into the creek below . 
the only problem with " slacker " is that it starts to run out of steam towards the end . 
since linklater only spends a few minutes with each character , the introduction of the new characters gets repetitive after a while . 
there are only so many times you can hear , " hey , what's going on ? " 
 " not much , what are you up to ? " 
 " nothing really , just hanging around , " before it gets on your nerves ; the film might well have benefited from a slightly slower pace and a little bit more characterization . 
and the dialogue in the second half of the film is by and large not quite as interesting as that in the first half ; a jfk buff , for example , seems like a pale imitation of the previous conspiracy theorist , and many of the characters just generally aren't as weird or unique . 
instead of depicting a city populated by mostly normal people and then showing us the strangeness that we might not have noticed at first , linklater shows us the oddballs first , then stops and reminds us that ordinary people live there too . 
 " slacker " is a good film and a wonderfully offbeat and entertaining comedy , whatever its flaws , and its status as a cult classic is well-deserved . 
i just can't help but think it might have been even better if linklater had slowed down a little bit and filmed these scenes in reverse order . 

 " mission to mars " is one of those annoying movies where , in the middle of the movie , you get the sneaking suspicion that the reason the trailer looks so good is because they showcased all the best parts of the movie : all five minutes of it . 
 " mission " * does * give you payoff ; but when it does come , it's too little , too late . 
 " mission " has some good ideas , but they get lost in the unbearably boring delivery , dime-a-dozen dialogue , and spate of good actors wasted in cardboard-cutout roles . 
i'm sure the director and writers were very proud of each hallmark moment they came up with , so they stretch each dramatic moment out like silly putty until it loses all its charm . 
glances don't communicate any deeper emotions just because you draw them out for five hours on end . 
the film spends an hour on this kind of stuff , building to its climax . 
a lot of it is a cliched glorification of family relationships , marriage , friendship , unite we stand divided we fall kind of crap . 
there are some spectacular special effects sequences in this film , and i give it points for trying to stay true to the science i know ( trying is the key word here ) . 
the sequence with the martian demonstrating their history is oddly beautiful and touching , but as mentioned by then we're so sick of the goddamn thing we want the movie to be over . 
great design , good intentions , but no cigar . 
if you're not a die hard sci-fi , fx or jerry o'connell fan ( his character is the only one who has some semblance of character ) , don't waste your eight bucks on this . 
and what the hell , tim robbins died halfway through the movie , in a stupid way too . 
that's just unforgiveable . 

in some respects , rush hour is the ultimate exercise in cliched filmmaking . 
the hero is the renegade cop that prefers to work alone . 
the cop in question cannot solve the case until he gets in trouble . 
all chinese people are somehow involved in the criminal element . 
the duo must always be completely mismatched . 
the hero has to say some smart-assed comment before ( and after ) shooting someone . 
however , that doesn't necessarily make for a bad film . 
rush hour is jackie chan's first major hollywood film since the dismal the protector ( 1985 ) . 
proving once again that hollywood can learn many things from foreign film markets ( ie : hong kong ) , jackie chan is given much more free reign than before . 
still , some die-hard jackie chan fans may be disappointed , as even chan himself has voiced displeasure over the length of the fight scenes ( which he views as too short , according to one interview ) . 
this film takes a familiar theme of east meets west . 
jackie chan is lee , the straight laced inspector who is imported to help deal with a kidnapping case , while chris tucker is carter , the loudmouthed , destructive cop that is `promoted' to the fbi to help him . 
or , at least , so he thinks ( also another classic notion in action films : the fbi must always get in the way of our heroes ) . 
despite the necessary conventions of action films , rush hour is some of the most fun you'll spend and hour and forty minutes watching . 
jackie chan continues to be one of the most exciting martial artists on the big screen , continuing to perform his own stunts and dazzling audiences with his flashy kicks and punches . 
chris tucker , familiar from his whiny , annoying role in the fifth element is more palatable , complementing jackie chan's straight-laced character . 
however , jackie chan still maintains his comic-slapstick edge , as expected of him and his films . 
perfectly downplaying the `fish-out-of-water' routine through his character's attempts at mixing into american culture , he makes up for the down time his character experiences . 
when he is in action , however , you'll be amused and dazzled . 
still being inventive in the use of objects to beat people up ( in this case , a steering wheel , a serving tray , and a barstool ) , jackie chan proves to be the pioneer of slapstick kung fu . 
chris tucker's character may come across as irritating , yet is also humorous . 
since he's not a physical actor to the level of jackie chan , he uses his main weapon : his mouth ( hence , the tagline , `fastest hands in the east meets the fastest mouth in the west' ) . 
while dialogue is not necessarily shakespeare , it is appropriate for the film and still very funny . 
while not necessarily poignant , attempts at character development and growth between characters come off surprisingly well . 
lee's `knowledge' of american pop culture ( `that's the beach boys ! ' ) 
when contrasted against carter's lack of knowledge of chinese culture makes for an interesting scene where lee teaches carter the kung fu disarming trick , while carter teaches lee hip-hop dance moves . 
while rush hour is not at the same level as police story 3 and 4 ( known in north america as supercop and jackie chan's first strike , respectively ) , it more than makes up for the poorly received films operation condor and mr . nice guy . 
with its appropriate mixture of high kicks and lots of laughs , it makes for a fun film . 
as well , it is a true departure from jackie chan films , as it is missing one common element : a whiny female co-star . 

movies based on video games , such as street fighter or mario bros . , have never generated much interest at the box office . 
but when the first mortal kombat movie came out in 1995 , it did surprisingly well . 
with a simple story , a pulsating soundtrack , and lots of awesomely choreographed fight scenes , the movie moved quickly and displayed lots of energy . 
it got my vote for 'the movie where i expected the least and got the most' . 
and , if you haven't had the opportunity , i would definitely recommend that you see it on video . 
in the world of mortal kombat , based on the popular arcade game , dark forces from outworld try to infiltrate earth's realm with the ulimate goal of total conquest and the destruction of humanity . 
the mortal kombat refers to a competition , fought by human mortals against outworld's minions , which if won , will guarantee earth's safety for another generation . 
mk2 picks up almost immediately after the humans return victoriously from competition . 
despite their victory , however , a gateway has somehow opened , and outworld continues in its quest to conquer earth . 
outworld's warriors include an impressive collection of fighters , including shao kahn , mintoro ( a centaur ) , sheeva ( a four-armed ogre ) , and sindel . 
earth's mortal warriors , under the leadership of the benevolent god , lord rayden , includes liu kang , princess kitana , sonya blade and jax , who must fight against outworld's forces . 
it's an easy enough premise , but unfortunately ( very unfortunately ) , the writers try to do too much with the movie . 
it is only a video game , after all , but the on-screen version tries to go beyond it's comic book boundaries by adding depth , a conceptualization of self-worth , and worst of all , a love story . 
this becomes very awkward , because all of the players are fighters and nothing more . 
they are likable and impressive when they are showcasing their martial arts and fighting skills , but look extremely awkward and uncomfortable when they are required to actually act . 
this becomes embarrassingly apparent , for example , as the movie tries to develop a romantic bond between liu kang and princess kitana . 
the original mk was smart in letting the players do what they do best . 
they spoke little , but fought a lot . 
thus , the movie was easy to digest . 
however , mk2 tries to give these players a certain amount of depth , an element that was lacking in the first movie , but the attempt here fails miserably . 
this uneasy feeling is readily apparent , for example , whenever you hear lord rayden speak . 
not only does he talk in riddles and offer enigmatic ( e . g . 
useless ) advice , but he speaks so slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom . 
try reading this half as fast , and you'll hear what i mean . 
but the movie is not a complete fatality . 
fight scenes are well-choreographed , highlighted by terrific acrobatics and agility . 
and players of the game will be rewarded with the inclusion of practically every character from the video game , although their screen time amounts to nothing more than a cameo . 
even if you're not familiar with the video game , each fighter has their own costume and unique weaponry to easily differentiate themselves . 
but it's just too little of what movie-goers and especially fans of the game will expect . 
oddly , the inclusion of the human element actually pollutes the purity of the mortal kombat essence . 
and the poor acting results in a muddled movie that offers the viewing audience little chance for survival . 
 ( i am now talking very slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom ) . 
rent the first one , but the sequel is for kombat fans only . 

 " take a number , fill out a form , and wait your turn . " 
starring kati outinen , kari v ? ? n ? nen , sakari kuosmanen , elina salo ; written & directed by aki kaurism ? ki ; cinematography by timo salminen 
it might be possible to call drifting clouds a satire or a black comedy , but that would imply a sense of anger , of vitriol , of energy ; drifting clouds is what you get when the rage and vitality are gone . 
it is the sad , slow story of lauri and ilona , a married couple caught between the wheels of capitalism as it grinds inexorably onward . 
he loses his job as a tram driver , because everyone drives cars nowadays . 
within a couple of months , she loses her position as a head waiter , when her restaurant is bought out by a chain and the entire staff replaced . 
a conversation early in the film reveals a lot about their situation . 
lauri has surprised ilona by buying her a tv , which she greets with little enthusiasm . 
she notes that they haven't finished paying for the bookshelves or the couch yet . 
he says that in four years the payments will be done and then they can buy some books for the shelves . 
it would pass as deadpan humour if it wasn't spoken with such resigned weariness . 
this sets the tone for the rest of the movie . 
there is humour and idiosyncracy at the periphery , but at the centre there is frustration and futility , and sorrow for the ways in which the logic of profit reduces people , until their worth is equated solely with their earning capacity . 
there is an element of political commentary in this critique of the mechanisms of capitalism and the stultifying social environment it creates , but in drifting clouds the political is subsumed by the personal : the movie is about two people and what happens to them , and nothing else matters . 
lauri and ilona live lives starved for friendship , respect , culture , passion . 
they go to the movies , and walk out past old posters for l'atalante and l'argent , but the movie they have just seen is a pointless , violent , unfunny comedy . 
their house and workplaces are uniformly unpleasant , painted and upholstered in lifeless colours ( ugly greens , dull reds , insipid blues ) , full of inelegantly functional objects and appliances . 
the art design is impeccable in its tawdriness , and director aki kaurism ? ki often matches the colour of characters' clothes with the background colour and/or lighting , so that it seems as if they are almost physically fading into the environment . 
there is no suggestion of sexuality in the relationship ; ilona and lauri sleep in separate beds and their gestures of affection lack the heat of desire ; their lives are now bound by something more complex and desperate than love . 
their downward , downsized , downtrodden lives have a momentum that is almost comic , as one setback succeeds another , bottoming out when lauri stakes all their remaining money on the spin of a roulette wheel . 
it must have been tempting to play the story for more laughs , more farce , more deadpan wit , but the film's great strength is the sober , empathic manner in which it observes lauri and ilona's misfortunes . 
irony would be an injustice . 
situations and settings are broad and exaggerated--this is not realism--but they are not distorted . 
the emotions are authentic . 
if it is difficult to laugh at anything that happens , despite the droll performances , the laconic humour , that's because kaurism ? ki brings such compassion and understanding to the manifold indignities that are suffered . 
he shows us how humiliating it must be for a woman of thirty-eight , who has worked long and hard to win a respectable position , to be forced to accept a job as a dishwasher in a two-bit restaurant ; how humiliating it must be for a man nearing 50 to confront his wife's former employer , demanding the rest of her wages , only to have the crap beaten out of him , unable to land a single punch , when the employer and his cronies refuse to give him the money . 
all this is observed keenly , with great economy : every cut , every line of dialogue , is judicious . 
if most films are novelistic in their telling , this one brings the focus and concentration of a short story to bear . 
but what is gained in nuance and acumen is rather undermined by the sense that the material barely accommodates the 96-minute running length . 
i have seen many movies far less profound , less humane , less necessary than drifting clouds , but they filled me with an urge to watch them again , and this one did not . 
it does not need to be seen twice : its every detail and implication can be absorbed in one viewing . 
it is not a movie that will be seen by a large audience , because it cannot be pitched to one . 
there is no selling point . 
it is all understatement , restraint , melancholy . 
the characters are unremarkable , their best years behind them , their dreams dissipated ; it takes all the effort they can muster just to pay the bills . 
this does not make them less fascinating , merely less marketable , which is a shame , because this is a movie which should be seen , precisely because it pays attention to people and emotions that most movies prefer to ignore . 
it engages us and touches us and resolves--surprisingly , and movingly--into something resembling a happy ending . 
the only thing greater than the ill-luck that governs the characters' lives is their refusal to give in to despair . 
their persistence is rewarded with what might be called a " feel-good " ending elsewhere , but not here , because this ending differs in kind from most such endings : this one has truly been earned . 

the andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made . 
i know that is very sweeping statement , so i'll qualify it by adding that the andromeda strain is one of the few films made that genuinely deserve the label of " science fiction , " stories in which speculative science is at the core of the plot . 
2001 : a space odyssey is probably a better film , but it really only qualifies as science fiction if you consider metaphysics to be a science . 
most all other films we normally classify as science fiction , or sf , are really just fantasy , action or horror stories set in a futuristic setting . 
the andromeda strain starts out with two soldiers in a high-tech ( for 1970 ) van looking for a crashed satellite in a tiny new mexico town . 
something bad happens to them . 
pictures from a reconnaissance plane show a shocking sight . 
apparently everyone in the town is dead . 
the authorities call a " wildfire alert , " summoning four scientists , all but one of them somewhat reluctant , to a super-secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada . 
two of scientists , stone and hall , fly directly to the town in space suits and find a town where almost every single resident literally dropped in their tracks , their blood turned to powder in their veins . 
some went insane before they died and two of them , a baby and an old wino , are miraculously still alive . 
they take the survivors and the satellite back to the lab , where stone pressures the white house to call up a " directive 712 , " an executive order to cauterize the area around the town with a nuclear bomb . 
what they find on the satellite when they get back to the lab is andromeda , an organism that defies all the normal rules of earth-like life and mutates as it grows . 
their only hope to cure it is to find out what a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common with an old derelict . 
what they find out is that organism feeds directly on energy and that detonating the a-bomb over the town would only spread it across the entire planet . 
they barely call off the bombing in time . 
but then the organism mutates into something that threatens to eat through the labs defenses and break out . 
this triggers the lab's last-ditch defense mechanism , an atomic bomb . 
to those raised on the brainless action fare that pollutes movie theaters these days , the andromeda strain will probably seem interminably slow . 
much of the film is a lot of people standing around looking at video screens and computer readouts . 
but what the characters see on those screens ratchets up the tension with every turn of the screw . 
the performances are universally fine , with the actors keeping things low-key and restrained , just like scientists . 
to me , the real appeal of this film is the fact that it shows scientists acting like scientists and makes it seem exciting . 
we follow the logic of their deduction step by methodical step , puzzling like they do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don't expect . 
this film is only available on wide screen on dvd and that is the way to see it . 
it was originally rated g when first released but it now carries the pg rating , mostly for very mild nudity and one scene in which a body's wrist is slashed , spilling its powdered blood . 

the makers of jurassic park & the director of speed conjure up a storm ! 
 ( reviewed at eng wah's new jubilee cineplex at ang mo kio ) 
 " unlike earthquakes , their fury is precise . 
unlike hurricanes , their reach is unlimited . 
unlike fires , there is no way to combat them . 
unlike floods , their terror is sudden . " 
- excerpt from twister production notes 
i'm sure many of us living in this part of the world have never seen tornadoes ( or twisters ) before . 
i for one , have only seen the devastating effects and footage of tornadoes from news reports on tv and personally , i feel tornado-caused destruction comes no where near the destruction caused by hurricanes and earthquakes . . . . . . . . that is until i saw twister . 
the destruction caused by twisters may be precise ( not widespread but it moves very fast and its path of destruction is unpredictable . 
it will suck in cars , houses , livestock , etc . . . . . 
basically anything in its path that is not firmly rooted to the ground and in twister , you'll get to see all this - close up ! 
twister tells a tale about a group of storm chasers . 
these people are basically out-of-their-mind and for the sake of obtaining data on twister-occurrences , they risk their lives by literally chasing tornadoes , trying to get as close as they can . . . . . that 
is if the tornado does not suddenly decide to change its path towards them ! 
jo ( helen hunt ) is the leader of this pack of kamikazes . 
while they are gearing up for the mother-of-all-storms as predicted by satellite recon , bill ( bill paxton ) , a former co- leader of the team returns to settle some divorce papers with jo . 
apparently , bill has left his rogue-ish days for greener and more practical pastures - as a television weatherman . 
he catches up with his old-self and follows the pack like the good ole days , bringing his wife-to-be melissa ( jamie gertz ) along , a city-bred woman toting around with a handphone . 
jo has finally implemented bills initial idea of a device called dorothy which measurement's of a twister may lead to a better understanding on how tornadoes are formed so that a more reliable early-warning system can be implemented . 
the problem is , the device has to be placed very near the twister , and in its path ( which is practically unpredictable ) of destruction in order for it to function . 
to add to their current challenge , there is another group of storm chasers that is corporation-funded led by jonas ( cary elwes ) and they too have a similar device . 
thus begins the race ; jo's cheap government equipment with beaten-up vehicles against jonas's high-tech computers and satellite link-ups with their sleek , black all-terrain vans . 
plot wise , there are not really anything to shout about . 
twister is as predictable as any summer box-office hit can get . 
there is the danger of the twister , the competition with jonas^os more well-off team and of course , the settling of differences between jo and bill ( this part gives the film its human substance ) . 
helen hunt , bill paxton and the rest of the actors/actresses give only average performances and all of them take back seat to the main thespian in this movie - the twister itself ! 
thanks to the impressive digital effects by ilm ( lucasfilm's industrial light and magic ) , we get to see the terror and destruction caused by tornadoes up close ; from stripping barns and houses to lifting up livestock ! 
jan de bont once again proves his visual abiility ( thanks to his years of experience as a director of photography for action films ) for action sequences . 
like his previous film speed , the tornado sequences ( which are essentially the action sequences ) are well visualised and edited . 
audiences will be holding tight to their chairs everytime a tornado comes on screen ! 
the surround sound effects sure does help a lot in stressing the terror of a twister ! 
 ( the cinema must at the very least support digital sound to fully appreciate this ) twister is definitely an effect-dependent movie . 
now that id4 fever has begun to reside , and people are getting bored of watching will smith whoop et's ass for the umpteenth time . . . . . . twister is your sure bet of 7 bucks well spent ! 
watch it in a good theatre . . . please . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 

the disney studios has its formula for annual , full-length animated features down so pat that it's hard to remember which one you're watching at any given moment . 
 " mulan , " their 36th animated adventure , is the latest case in point . 
once again we have a tale focused around a strong central character ( female as usual ; disney is one of the few studios whose heroines--ariel , belle , pocahontas , and now mulan--get equal screen time with their heroes in recent years ) . 
add the requisite love interest and a wise-cracking sidekick or two , pep up the soundtrack with a handful of strategically placed show tunes ( an introspective number by a pool or looking in a mirror , a rousing anthem , a cutesy , montage-backed crowd pleaser ) , pose a few threats to our engaging lead , and tie things all up neatly by the closing credits . 
bob's your uncle ! 
better make that walt's your uncle . . . 
kids will no doubt go ga-ga over " mulan " ( or at least the fast food tie-ins ) , but familiarity can , after a while , leave grown-ups--this reviewer included--wishing for a little more . 
maybe an animated feature without--shock ! 
horror ! --the 
songs , for example ? 
or maybe a film in which a cheeky chihuahua called pepe longs to become a matador from trinidad ? ? 
how about simply ditching the sidekicks altogether ? 
it isn't gonna happen . 
like disney's previous entries , " mulan " is slow to make its mark . 
the animation tends to suffer from some slackness in the early going and the humorous element , a madcap dragon wannabe ( in the guise of a loquacious lizard with a case of dry mouth , courtesy eddie murphy's animated vocal talents ) , plays like an inappropriate if necessary ( formula-wise ) afterthought . 
however , after about an hour everything comes together and the formula , like it or not , clicks . 
highlights include a spectacular cavalry charge on a snow-covered pass ( which , due to the sophistication of today's computer-generated imagery , is hard to tell from the real thing ) , a memorable , show-stopping musical interlude ( " i'll make a man out of you , " penned by matthew wilder and david zippel ) , and last but not least , mulan herself . 
voiced by ming-na wen , mulan is disney's strongest female character to date . 
when hordes of huns pour over china's great wall and threaten to overthrow the imperial palace , the emperor decrees that every family in the land dispatch one man to serve in the imperial army . 
since mulan's father is infirm , but proud , the high-spirited mulan steals her father's armor and , incognito , signs up to face the mongolian menace . 
attracted to , but not distracted by , her commanding officer shang ( b . d . 
wong ) , mulan outmatches her fellow combatants in smarts , wit , and physical ability . 
she's a woman of the '90s a couple of millennia ahead of her time . 

i'm really starting to wonder about alicia silverstone . 
sure , she is one of the most beautiful creatures on god's green earth ( second only to that movie critic at large guy ) , but when it comes to choosing what movies she stars in , she always strikes out . 
the crush was a slow-moving , predictable piece of fluff . 
hideaway was a horrific novel adaptation alicia had only a minor role in . 
clueless was an annoying , unfunny waste of time . 
and people have e-mailed me too , saying clueless is a good movie and that i'm the only one who doesn't like it . 
one girl said if i'd seen the movie with " an open mind , " i would have enjoyed it . 
nothing could be further from the truth . 
i went into the theater expecting to love the movie . 
the preview looked good and of course i'm crazymadinlove with alicia , but the movie was a bunch of bad jokes coming from whiny , unlikable characters . 
almost everyone i saw the movie with felt the same way . 
when we were walking out of the theater , one guy ( and it wasn't me ) yelled out , " that was the worst f$&#in' movie i've ever seen " and the rest of us had to laugh in agreement . 
so last night i walked into the video store and saw alicia's pretty face on the cover of some made-for-video thriller called the babysitter . 
i knew it would be bad but some inner compulsion i'll probably never understand made me rent it anyway . 
what i got was 90 minutes of regret--the worst alicia silverstone movie ever . 
and you already know from the last paragraph what the competition is like . 
where to begin in criticizing this movie ? 
the plot is a thin shred that moves slower than a glacier , the writing could have been done ( and for all we know it was ) by a ten year old , alicia is the star and she's still wasted in a movie that has no appeal whatsoever . 
there is zero humor , zero suspense , zero drama and zero action , until the last ten minutes , when the story is needlessly and pointlessly concluded with a violent sequence . 
zero plus zero plus zero plus zero equals zero . 
so why does this movie get one star out of me ? 
well , alicia spends twenty minutes of the movie in the bathtub . 
and if it wasn't bubble bath , the babysitter would have instantly joined the ranks of our other four- star features , but you settle for what you can get . 
alicia plays a babysitter who's spending friday night looking after two kids whose parents are out getting drunk at a cocktail party . 
and of course anyone as beautiful as alicia automatically spends their friday nights at home ( at least that movie critic at large guy does ) . 
as the movie trods along , we discover she's not only the mostly-silent star of the movie but also the object of every male character's fantasies ( and probably every male viewer's too ) . 
the drunken father thinks she's just the thing to recapture his lost youth , her boyfriend lets his imagination run wild while spying on alicia from outside , even the prepubescent boy looks in on alicia through the bathroom keyhole while she's taking her bubble bath . 
they even throw in the middle aged wife's fantasies about a male counterpart at the party . 
not that any of us asked or ever even thought about seeing this 200+ pound woman in a black silk teddy . 
at least none of the sex fanatasies ever leave the realm of the pg-rated . 
in fact , i could imagine the babysitter becoming a cinemax late-night staple if not for the fact that there's absolutely no nudity in it . 
so you can't call it a sex flick . 
i've already pointed out that it can't fall under drama , comedy , thriller or action , so what do you classify the babysitter as ? 
bad . 

can a horror movie truly be called a horror movie if it has no scares , suspense , or even eerie elements ? 
i think not , but that's what children of the corn 666 : issac's return wants us to believe . 
the sixth installment in the horrible , worn out series is by far the worst to date . 
unlike the other five chapters , children of the corn 666 is a confusing , brainless thriller that takes the psychological horror route rather than slasher horror , but either way , none of these movies are the least bit scary . 
the film follows hannah ( natalie ramsey ) a teen looking for her mother in gatlin , nebraska , on the eve of her 21st birthday . 
what starts out as a daughter in desperate search of her long lost mother turns into the story of hannah being the first daughter of the children of the corn , who roam the cornfields looking for adults to murder . 
that's about all that's understandable in the film , as after we learn this much , issac ( john franklin ) who led the children of the corn in a previous chapter , now an older , strange man , is looking for hannah to fulfill his prophecy . 
and this is supposed to make sense . 
really . 
from the start the film is unclear of where its going , not developing any characters or throwing any concrete plot details across the table , constantly introducing new characters without personalities or the slightest hint of an individuality , and sub plots that have nothing to do with what seems to the main focus of the film . 
the film runs at a short 78 minutes , but it seems to be more in the vicinity of two hours , as the bleak , slow pacing makes children of the corn 666 : issac's return excruciatingly boring . 
plot holes are everywhere in tim sulka and john franklin's unbelievably horrible script , as nothing is accomplished or clear when the film reaches its conclusion . 
everyone and everything involved with children of the corn 666 : issac's return , namely writers john franklin and tim sulka , along with director kari skogland , should crawl under a rock , and hope no one sees their horrible work of trash . 
the bottom line : horrible , horrible , horrible . 
another attempt to revive this worn out genre falls flat . 
and what's with that title ? 
the devil has nothing to do whatsoever with this film . 
let's pray that this is the finale in one of the worst current film series . 
one of the worst horror films in years . 

have you ever been in an automobile accident where you've miraculously walked away with only a few scratches , yet the car has been obliterated into an unrecognizable , mangled wreck ? 
well , that has never actually happened to me and i hope that none of us will ever experience this situation . 
but after watching this inane exercise of a movie , i certainly feel that i've miraculously walked away unscathed after a two-hour ride that mercilessly careens back and forth before finally plummeting into an icy pond . 
oddly , `eye of the beholder , ' which is a psychological-romance-thriller , starts off promisingly enough when the opening sequence introduces us to a british intelligence agent , called the eye ( ewan mcgregor ) , working in washington dc . 
in the humorous opening scene , he eyes a top lawyer across the street in his office with his pants down . 
using an array of high-tech surveillance and communications equipment , he proceeds to transmit pictures of the bared lawyer to pc screens and fax machines in his office . 
the law firm's employees get a good chuckle . 
the audience gets a good chuckle . 
the eye is later given an assignment where he encounters a beautiful woman ( ashley judd ) . 
there is something compelling about this mysterious woman . 
despite her glamorous looks , however , we learn that she is a psychopath with a propensity to kill men that get too close to her . 
after the murders , she sobs while singing the christmas tune `little bluebirds' and laments about being abandoned by her father long ago . 
after each killing , she puts on a different wig , assumes a new name , and then makes her way to another state . 
the eye has witnessed all her murderous transgressions . 
but he does not alert the authorities . 
he somehow empathizes with her sense of loss . 
the eye , it turns out , also is haunted by his past . 
his daughter was taken away from him and he anguishes this loss every day of his life . 
his tormented psyche creates a ghost-like image of his daughter with which he engages in conversation . 
she becomes a sort of spectral adviser , and one thing that the ghostly daughter says is that he must help the woman . 
he now diverts his energies into trying to help her find some kind of salvation . 
it doesn't matter that he has witnessed all of her murders . 
and it doesn't matter that the eye is abnormally reticent , hiding his entire life behind computer screens . 
he follows her to a dozen different locales and shadows her every move to keep her out of trouble . 
when a crazed druggie ( jason priestley ) attacks her , he shows up for some quick butt kicking . 
when the police are closing in to arrest her , he provides a distraction so that she can escape . 
all the while , the woman has no idea who her guardian angel is and the eye stays just out of sight . 
peculiar . 
how bad is this movie ? 
i refer you to my `review quote source' litmus test . 
just take a look at the full-page ad in the newspaper and see where they are pulling quotes . 
for this movie , they are from magazines called `flaunt' and `mirabella . ' 
no doubt , they were impressed with judd's series of catwalks and disguise changes . 
the major problem with `eye of the beholder' is that the film jerks forward , always unsure of its ultimate destination . 
if it was a thriller , there was little to keep us entranced . 
if it was a love story , there was absolutely no emotional pull . 
completely disjointed in structure , it's only saving grace was its stylish look which reminded me of my favorite car commercial ( the one where the `6' on the tachometer dissolves into a winding road and a passenger rail car dissolves into a small miniature on a child's train set ) . 
i am also still hopeful that ashley judd will find a serious role to showcase her potential talents . 
beyond that , the film is hopelessly out-of-control and is in need of seriously better traction and handling . 

another formula 'feel good' quirky comedy from the british isles , much like " waking ned devine , " and a host of other popular low budget movies that turned a nifty profit off a thin story line . 
it is filled with likable establishment types living in a quaint town , such as tolerant vicars and policemen , plenty of eccentrics , and of locals who stick together through thick and thin . 
the strength of this film lies in its rational theme , that smoking pot should be legalized since it is even less dangerous than drinking alcohol . 
the film is tolerable until after its first hour , it then falls completely apart , becoming just too absurd to consider as anything but sitcom fluff gone completely bananas . 
but its long overdue message of decriminalization for certain drugs is on target and allows the film to , at least , be viewed as containing a pertinent message . 
its message is especially appropriate nowadays considering the 'war on drugs' is about to be escalated into colombia . 
the drug war has been a total failure so far and with no hope of it being won by law enforcement methods in the future , it has so far just ended up causing america's jails to be overcrowded with non-violent drug prisoners and offers zero hope of curtailing america's drug usage and drug supply . 
billions of dollars have just been allocated by congress to get officially involved in the colombian civil war , by backing a corrupt government ( remember vietnam ! ) with the idea that military might could stop the cocaine and marijuana harvests in that country . 
everything about this proposed action smacks of vietnam , with this scenario closer to home , so what probably awaits such an effort is a more futile result than the other war . 
the film's mild theme of showing squares getting into the weed business and finding it acceptable by the public , something that should have been accepted some 40 years ago , is a theme long overdue for public acceptance , but one that is better received late than never . 
there has to be some common sense in distinguishing what drugs should be legalized and how to educate the public on this , rather than making it a police matter altogether . 
the film opens in a quaint cornish seaside village at the funeral of the husband of a middle-aged woman , grace ( brenda blethyn ) , who fell out of an airplane , evidently committing suicide . 
the widow soon finds out her husband was a bigger bastard than she imagined . 
he left her with a stack of enormous bills and put up , without her knowledge , their comfortable 300 year old house as collateral for a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage . 
the widow finds herself bankrupt and with no marketable skills to pay back her husband's enormous debts and prevent her from losing the house and becoming homeless . 
she also knows that he was having an affair with a sophisticated woman from london , honey ( quick ) . 
what makes the affair doubly unsatisfying , is that when conferring with honey , she finds out that he was a tiger with her in bed but refrained from having sex with her . 
even though the locals try to help the bankrupt widow out as best they can , the creditors swoop down on her like vultures . 
her gardener and handyman , matthew ( ferguson ) , decides to stay on with her , despite his last check bouncing . 
since she is an expert amateur horticulturist , he convinces her to help him revive his hemp plants , which he grows for private use . 
the two soon see this as a possibly big business opportunity , as grace works miracles with the plants which turn out to be high-quality stuff . 
for grace , this is a way to save her house and get her out of debt ; for the scotsman , matthew , it offers a chance for him to continue to live in this beautiful village and earn enough money to marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky ( valerie ) . 
the locals all let the illegal activities go on undisturbed : the police sergeant ( campbell ) pretends not to notice what the bright lights in grace's greenhouse is for , the friendly vicar ( phillips ) counsels about the wisdom of not taking action over something that you can't control , and the doctor ( clunes ) enjoys smoking the weed for recreation . 
the story becomes incredulous when grace decides to go to london and score with a big-time drug dealer instead of having matthew go , because she finds out nicky is pregnant and doesn't want matthew to end up in jail . 
it is interesting to note , that no one thinks smoking grass is bad for you , only that one can go to jail . 
the scene with grace on portobello road in the notting hill section of london , trying to find a drug dealer , while dressed out of place , in a white dress and hat one would wear to a tea party in cornwall but not on the streets of notting hill while looking to make a drug deal , was completely hokey and the film descended into a huge black hole , whereby it never recovered its dignity . 
the film moves into the formula mode , whereas grace beats the odds against her failing to survive , as she meets an international drug dealer , a frenchman ( tcheky karyo ) , who is first seen threatening to cut off her fingers but later becomes her business partner and husband as she becomes a millionaire and writes a best selling fiction book about her experiences , thereby becoming a celebrity . 
things work out in a ridiculous way , where there is a total breakdown in the character development of grace , where this matronly figure suddenly becomes merely a cartoon figure instead of live flesh and blood . 
there are a lot of silly giggles that come forth and the film has just enough of an acting performance by brenda blethyn to breathe air into it before it comes to its belated finale , as it drones on with its transparently gratuitous upbeat tone , until it makes the audience feel good that the sweet old lady succeeded . 
this 'unhip' film leaves one with the impression that smoking and growing pot is silly , but should be tolerated as something naughty middle-aged widows screwed by their terrible former husbands must do in order not to remain destitute . 
ummm ! 

perhaps it's time for me to say a little about my reading habits . 
i really do like to read , and i've enjoyed many books in my lifetime . 
my problem is that i'm a slow reader , and not very dedicated -- i'll enjoy portions of a book and then set it down for months at a time ( it's taken me the last six weeks to get through the first one hundred pages of anna karenina , even though i'm loving the book ) . 
in addition to this , i typically don't read anything created after the 19th century . 
the only reason i bother with this bit of information is because i feel bad admitting , time after time , that i haven't read any of the books on which these films are based ( the only exception , i believe , is great expectations ) . 
however , i don't think it should be necessary to read the book beforehand in order to judge the quality of the film . 
needless to say , i haven't read the elmore leonard novel out of sight , on which steven soderbergh's new film is based . 
i can't say how faithful of an adaptation it is , or if it lives up to leonard's vision . 
i can say that it's a terrific film , with sharp acting , great dialogue , and pumping full of energy and style injected by soderbergh . 
it's certainly a nice distraction from 1998's lineup of brainless blockbusters , all hopelessly wishing that size mattered . 
out of sight proves that it doesn't . 
i had originally written george clooney off as a one-note actor , incapable of depth but occasionally showing a little flair . 
after seeing his latest performance in this film , i've changed my mind -- this guy can act , but he also has that forceful presence that most certainly will make him one of those $20 million superstars . 
here , he plays jack foley , a middle aged guy who robs banks for a living . 
he does it because it's fun , i think , but the film opens with him getting caught because his car won't start . 
he goes to jail -- which is interesting -- only to break out five cinematic minutes later with the help of his friend , buddy ( ving rhames ) . 
we're then introduced to karen sisco ( jennifer lopez ) , a u . s . marshall who , conveniently , is waiting with a shotgun as jack escapes . 
fortunately , they take her hostage , and she and jack spend some quality time in the trunk together as buddy drives them to safety . 
the central conflict arises when both jack and karen become obsessed with one another , though their respective jobs make them superficially incompatible . 
we soon learn that the film is not told in sequence ( and , since this is a gritty crime comedy , flashbacks of pulp fiction should arise ) . 
at first , i kind of felt that it was a gimmick , but i guess it was a gimmick in pulp fiction , too . 
it's a fun gimmick , though , and soderbergh treats the material with enough humor that everything comes off naturally . 
i've only seen a few of soderbergh's films ( i was impressed both with kafka and sex , lies , and videotape ) , but i think he's excellent at what he does . 
he's an artist without making it obvious , and without being pretentious , which is always admirable . 
he uses tricks , yes ( lots of freeze-frame stuff here ) , but it all adds to the smooth and quirky currents in the film . 
as i said , clooney is terrific , and he's matched by lopez . 
lopez is , of course , beautiful , but she can act , too . 
i can sense that she's honing in on her skills , for she comes off more natural here than she has in any of her previous ventures ( not that stone gave her much help in the loathsome u-turn ) . 
the two actors have arresting chemistry with one another -- the best scene in the film , by far , is the seduction scene . 
the brilliance of this scene is also due , in part , to soderbergh , for he cuts back and forth from their quiet discussion in a bar to the physical act which takes place a few minutes later . 
the scene is a series of soft nuances and glances , layered upon light dialogue , and the result is one of the better love scenes in recent cinema -- meaningful and engrossing . 
the supporting cast is strong , led by the always-reliable ving rhames . 
dennis farina , who plays karen's father , is good , as is don cheadle as the profoundly stupid villain . 
steve zahn , who plays jack's nearly-brain dead accomplice glenn , steals all of his scenes ( and that's in a film where every scene is already at a high level ) . 
all of the actors are helped by the dialogue and the intelligently-constructed script by scott frank . 
out of sight is certainly a light film , although there are a few heavy moments that will linger in the memory . 
overall , i can recommend it simply as great entertainment . 
not every film has to change your life , and it's nice to see a movie that uses the art to tell a great story and simply to entertain its viewers . 
as for the book , this film is good enough to make me believe that there might be something in the text worth looking at . 

devotees of robert a . heinlein , be forewarned : paul verhoeven's starship troopers is less an adaptation of heinlein's novel than it is a literary satire . 
the author's jingo-all-the-way militarism and his tendency to create plastic characters with plastic conflicts had me expecting a soulless , faceless parade of carnage from the film version . 
and i suppose that's exactly what verhoeven delivers , with sometimes hilarious results . 
heinlein's basic motifs are so faithfully rendered that their flaws become a source of amusement , while their strengths become the stuff of high-energy entertainment . 
outlining the plot of starship troopers is a fairly silly endeavor , since it's basically a big bug hunt . . . aliens in broad daylight . 
sometime in the future , humanity is threatened by giant , malevolent insects which have evolved into twenty-foot-tall action figures ( arachnids with super-impaling spikes , beetles that spew forth lava , dragonflies with guillotine legs ) . 
among those who sign on to save the earth are a group of high school classmates from buenos aires : conflicted rich kid johnny rico ( casper van dien ) ; his math whiz girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; dizzy ( dina meyer ) , who secretly carries a torch for johnny ; and carl ( neil patrick " doogie howser " harris ) , who not-so-secretly carries a torch for dizzy , and also has a talent for speaking telepathically to ferrets . 
while carmen heads for flight school and carl joins military intelligence , johnny and dizzy become mobile infantry , their various battles intertwining with romantic sub-plots out of a third season episode from " beverly hills 90210 . " 
so if starship troopers is another movie where one-dimensional characters wade through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of aliens , what makes it any better than , say , independence day , a movie where one-dimensional characters waded through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of slightly different aliens ? 
for one thing , you sense that the film-makers are aware of the pulp nonsense they have as source material . 
the very absence of major stars in the cast feels thematically appropriate , not just fiscally prudent . 
if starship troopers had been turned into a tv-movie , aaron spelling would have produced it . 
it's a story which requires emoting , not acting ; it's a prime time soap opera with big guns , played for all the dopey melodrama it's worth . 
the no-name cast also plays into verhoeven's treatment of heinlein's most controversial conceit . 
in this society , we learn , one can only be a full citizen after completing some sort of federal service , military for most . 
verhoeven pays the notion plenty of lip service , then proceeds to skewer it with brilliant mock recruitment ads ( named after the world war ii-era " why we fight " series ) in which youngsters are indoctrinated into the joys of firearms , or the pleasures of stomping cockroaches . 
these characters really are just " fresh meat for the grinder , " as one character puts it , which makes their lack of familiarity all the more fitting . 
it's not that starship troopers is anti-military , because it never treats the true horror of war as anything but a great big , violent video game . 
in fact , the characters are living the propaganda ( particularly johnny , who receives so many field promotions he may not remember his own rank by the time the film ends ) . 
verhoeven is actually having it both ways -- he's making fun of gung-ho boosterism even as he fires his fresh-faced recruits into battle on a gung-ho booster rocket of visual effects . 
if that makes starship troopers hypocritical , at least it's enthusiastically staged hypocrisy . 
there may not be a person worth caring about in the whole film , but it moves like nobody's business . 
verhoeven stages some thrilling action sequences , sending swarms of bugs after the anonymous grunts then having various body parts strewn about the screen like landscaping . 
it is that rare special effects blockbuster which demonstrates a sense of pacing to match its budget ; i was caught up in the action enough of the time that i wasn't perpetually groaning over the absence of real human beings . 
i wish i could find it in myself to work up more outrage over the callous way humans are dispatched in starship troopers , but it didn't work out that way . 
that would be punishing verhoeven for getting to the heart of his material . 

usually when one is debating who the modern queen of the romantic comedy is they will bring up names like julia roberts or sandra bullock . 
others will mention meg ryan . 
but for me , it's not even close . 
janeane garofalo is not only the queen of the romantic comedy , she is the best comic actress in hollywood right now . 
and it's a good thing she's starring in the matchmaker , because without her presence the movie would be bland , unfunny , and dull . 
garofalo stars as marcy tizard , a top aide to boston senator john mcglory , who is suffering in the polls . 
in an attempt to capture the irish vote , he sends marcy on a mission to a small irish town called ballinagra in search of other mcglory's that never moved to america . 
unfortunately for marcy , her visit coincides with the town's annual matchmaking festival . 
things get off to a rocky start for marcy though . 
she has no hotel reservations ( for no rational reason ) and the tiny confined room ( tired old cliche' ) she has to stay in has a visitor in her bathtub . 
his name is sean , and marcy finds him repugnant at first , so you can obviously tell where this is headed . 
the movie runs into a few roadblocks . 
for instance , the story is very thin . 
none of the characters ( except the old local matchmaker ) are nearly as interesting as garofalo . 
some of the characters , like the political aide played by denis leary , have wandered in from a completely different movie . 
i think the director realized this and decided to throw in numerous shots of the beautiful irish scenery , and several close-ups of garofalo's winning smile . 
the strange thing is that it works . 
garofalo's charm and the irish scenery could carry the thinnest of stories , and it carries this one . 

capsule : liebes meets tod . 
this was a film about sex and death . 
a morgue attendant accidentally revives a dead woman through necrophilia and brings her into his world which is heavy on orgies . 
this film says something obscure about the relationship of sex and death , but imparts no insights . 
to make matter worse this print was poorly subtitled into english from french . 
0 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- an attractive 18-year-old dies on a disco floor and gets sent to a morgue . 
one of the attendants , ben ( jean-marc barr ) is so attracted by her that he attempts necrophilia . 
we see him crawling away after a shock . 
in the middle of sex the dead teen has come back to life . 
- the morgue attendant was just adding a new form of sex to his collection of kinks . 
he was already part of a group that gets together for s/m sex . 
the revived teen , teresa ( elodie bouchez ) joins them . 
- moral dilemma of teresa's father . 
ben has abused his daughter's body , but in doing so has saved her life . 
- part of this opaque allegory is a man saved from suicide who joins in the sexual hijinx . 
also involved is a man in the final stages of dying of aids , a close friend of the morgue attendant . 
he does not get involved in the orgies . 
- the subtitles of our print were white , often on a white background making them often hard to read , but i don't think there was a whole lot of meaning there that was lost . 
- the title means " don't let me die on a sunday . " 

it was with a huge lack of something to do that i decided to watch this on good old upn on sunday afternoon , when the only good things on tv are the second-rate movies they show ( some are good : they showed " total recall " before this one ) . 
if you know me , i think seagal is probably the most boring action star to ever live . 
and this includes keanu reeves . 
what do i hate about seagal ? 
i hate how he uses one facial expression for every single threatening and non-threatening situation ( the squint ) . 
i hate those scenes in every movie where he goes around , bullying people up , saying stupid lines with a brooklyn accent more fake than burt reynold's hairpiece in " boogie nights . " 
i despise how he never gets a bruise in any of his fights . 
i hate how every single plot twist leads to just a melodramatic fight between he and the chief villain . 
i hate his non-satirical messages ( in the beginning of this one , he slaps on a quote from arthur miller , which has nothing to do with the film , except it's about brooklyn where this film takes place ) . 
and i hate how he's so narcissistic that he thinks that he can actually fucking sing ( during the end credits , he has a good old hill billy rock tune sung and penned by him ) . 
sure , the guy's probably a nice guy in person ( i actually found him very non-threatening when he was on letterman not too long ago ) . 
but the guy makes worse films than reagan did . 
so what's the plot of this shit-terpiece ? 
well . . . something 
about him trying to catch a stupid-ass crook ( william forsythe ) who shot and killed his partner in broad daylight . 
i couldn't believe how bad this scene was - the guy was conveniently with his family so we get the maximum emotional effect ( ahem ! ) . 
and forsythe even said some stupid lines to him before he took off . 
i'm sorry , did anyone ever hear of concealing one's self ? 
so in comes ex-brooklynite seagal , who dedicates his life to catching this guy . 
and i just wished he had caught him in the beginning , then ended the film . 
but noooo , this drags on , as he bullies forsythe's family members ( including a stupid bar-owner , and none other than gina gershon as his other bar-owner sister ) . 
and forsythe more than once threatens his family . 
at one point , he actually comes to their house and stalks them like a non-threatening nicholson in " the shining " ( complete with them all hiding in the bathroom , but with an added bonus of one girl conveniently loosing her cool and screaming to give them away ) . 
seagal paints himself as a lovable person , with a son , and a fiancee . 
he even shows him hanging with his son , checking up on his homework , and then about to take him out for a bit of " catch , " when he's conveniently called away on assignment . 
i dunno about you , but playing " catch " with seagal was one of my childhood nightmares . 
he also shows him as that bad-ass he wants to be , with scenes of him bullying crooks around , and taking out people who are stupid enough to attack him even after he's unarmed a chinese guy swinging bats with a pool cue . 
serves them right . 
this film , as some of his do , has an interesting supporting cast of actors who are actually talented , but don't appear to be in this film . 
i already mentioned gina gershon ( who's pretty horrible in this one ) , as well as william forsythe , who over-acts terribly . 
i know this guy can act : he was awesome in " raising arizona " as goodman's partner in crime . 
but he's just awful here . 
jerry orbach gives the only credible performance in the film as the police chief who checks up on segal after things have gone down . 
why is he the only one who gives a good performance ? 
well , because his role is small enough and sporadic enough to not tarnish his credibility . 
he seems to be in here just to give it a cool " law and order " feeling ( even if it's not a " cool " feeling ) . 
and in cameos are b-rated erotic-thriller-cinemax-style stars , shannon whirry ( as " terry malloy , " which is more of a bad joke than a clever one ) and athena massey . 
oh ! 
and " er " 's julliana margiulles has two scenes . 
 " out for justice " just proves once again that american action films just suck . 
i know that there's such a good thing as good action - he's called john woo . 
but if you're in the mood for some good old no-brainer , fun-yet-dumb action , don't bother watching this . 
it's so stupid that it's boring . 

this talky , terribly-plotted thriller stars alec baldwin as dave robicheaux , an ex-new orleans cop who gets ensnared in a murder- mystery after a light-plane crashes into the bayou beside his fishing boat . 
he and his wife annie ( kelly lynch ) rescue a little salvadorian girl ( samantha lagpacan ) from the wreckage and that's when the trouble begins . 
the other major players include a local drug lord ( eric roberts ) , his scheming wife ( teri hatcher ) , a soused stripper ( mary stuart masterson ) , and a shady dea agent ( vondie curtis hall ) . 
everyone knows everyone else and it makes for a collective that's curious but never compelling . 
based on the book by james lee burke , heaven's prisoners is so badly plotted that entire * scenes * seem to be missing . 
early on , we have no idea of why dave and annie keep the child to themselves . 
nor how they eluded both the coast guard and the faa . 
later , dave is reunited with a drug-abuser who appears seemingly clean and sober and without any explanation . 
huh ? 
the whole movie is like this , perhaps the result of some unkind cuts that happened during the eighteen months that the film sat on the shelf . 
whatever the reason , somebody should tell director phil joanou ( final analysis ) to recut this mess . 
in its present form , heaven's prisoners runs only two hours plus change , but it feels like four . 

originally titled 'don't lose your head' , this parody of the scarlet pimpernel story was the first carry on to be produced by rank film productions . 
two english fops , the 'powdered , be-wigged , be-ribboned' sir rodney ffing ( sidney james ) and his counterpart lord darcy pew ( jim dale ) decide to travel to revolutionary france in an attempt to rescue their fellow french royalists and aristocrats from losing their heads by the guillotine . 
due to a series of machinations and disguises , they are largely successful . 
ffing becomes known as 'the black fingernail' because he leaves a calling card behind which shows two fingers sticking up , one with a black fingernail . 
after the fingernail rescues a prominent royalist the duc de pommfrit ( charles hawtrey ) , citizen robespierre ( peter gilmore ) orders the head of the secret police citizen 'the big cheese' camembert ( kenneth williams ) and citizen bidet ( peter butterworth ) to follow the fingernail to england and do away with him . 
 ( in fact , darcy and ffing are their coachmen ! ) 
once at calais , the fingernail meets jacqueline ( dany robin ) and they fall in love instantly . 
he tells her his identity and gives her his locket . 
when camembert realises that the fingernail is nearby , he searches the inn at calais and captures jacqueline , thinking that she is wearing a diguise and is really the fingernail ! 
jacqueline is imprisoned in the bastille and camembert , his love desiree dubarry ( joan sims ) , and bidet all travel to london in pursuit of the fingernail . 
they pretend to be of noble stock , calling themselves the duc and duchesse de la plume de ma tante ( with bidet their assistant ) and are invited by darcy to a ball held by ffing . 
desiree finds out that ffing is the fingernail by wearing the locket around her neck , but she ends up falling in love with him . 
ffing attempts to stall camembert so that he can return to the bastille to rescue jacqueline , camembert has her moved to the 'chateau neuve' , and a climactic sword-fight decides who will lose their heads at the end of the film ! 
a more complex story than most carry ons , this film enjoys good production values ( sets , costumes ) and an on-form cast . 
sid james is excellent as the english fop and black fingernail , kenneth williams excels as the evil camembert , and peter butterworth expertly plays the substantial part of camembert's thick-witted crony . 
other acting honours go to joan sims who is perfect as desiree and charles hawtrey who is excellent as the french aristo pommfrit . 
although it suffers from a disasterously over-long sword fight at the end of the film , it is largely successful due to the performances of the main stars , its slick and professional production , and its better-than-usual script . 
definitely one of the best of the series and a joy to watch . 

much ado about nothing . 
ah , how sweet the irony ! 
it's accepted wisdom in some circles - among english literature nuts , mainly - that whenever a critic knocks shakespeare they are only doing so through ignorance . 
he just doesn't " understand " shakespeare , you will hear them say . 
the bard's work is apparently beyond criticism . 
what a load of old cobblers . 
if these arbiters of public taste think kenneth branaugh's film of shakespeare's " comedy " much ado about nothing is comedy in any modern sense of the word , it's time to get a life . 
get monty python . 
get woody allen . 
get john waters . 
whatever . 
just get a real taste of some clever , witty , risky comedy . 
and banish this nonsense to where it belongs . 
drama and tragedy was shakespeare's strength . 
to my sensibilities - and i'm no stick in the mud - much ado about nothing resonates with no spark whatsoever . 
no kidding : this film ranks among the most embarrassing two hours i have ever spent in a cinema in my 20 years of movie going . 
the only thing that stopped me walking out was loyalty to my lady friend , as this was our day out and i hadn't seen her in ages . 
but boy , does she owe me one ! 
i won't spend too much time on the plot . 
basically , we follow the trials and tribulations of two would-be couples - one young , the other older . 
there's some dark treachery amongst all this , but everyone is so awfully jolly that you'd hardly know it . 
mind you , there's nothing wrong with the basic story . 
good romantic comedies based on similar premises abound . 
nothing wrong with most of the cast , either . 
branaugh , emma thompson and denzel washington are all talented performers . 
the problem is the script , or more accurately , shakespeare's original text . 
light comedy shouldn't be complex . 
yet wrapped in elizabethan english , the dialogue becomes difficult to comprehend . 
for this alone it will be a problem for modern audiences unschooled in shakespeare and in search of nothing more than a good , undemanding laugh . 
the only laughs to escape my belly were brought on by the gloriously inept performance of keanu reeves , the actor once again miscast as a jealous half-brother or something . 
but when dissected and understood , what it all boils down to is that this stuff is just so goddamn lame . 
this is comedy so clean and nice and corny and so devoid of danger that it leaves this viewer totally cold . 
ho , ho , ho , boy likes girl ! 
ho , ho , ho , men are such klutzes ! 
ho , ho , ho , she's so awfully clumsy ! 
oh please ! 
there's wit in here somewhere , i'm told . 
i call it pretentious . 
something lightweight striving to be something sophisticated through clever wordplay . 
in the end , it's cringeworthy . 
watching some of the cinema patrons around me collapse with laughter made much ado about nothing a very weird movie going experience . 
comedy ? 
bah , humbug ! 

best remembered for his understated performance as dr . hannibal lecter in michael mann's forensics thriller , manhunter , scottish character actor brian cox brings something special to every movie he works on . 
usually playing a bit role in some studio schlock ( he dies halfway through the long kiss goodnight ) , he's only occasionally given something meaty and substantial to do . 
if you want to see some brilliant acting , check out his work as a dogged police inspector opposite frances mcdormand in ken loach's hidden agenda . 
cox plays the role of big john harrigan in the disturbing new indie flick l . i . e . , which lot 47 picked up at sundance when other distributors were scared to budge . 
big john feels the love that dares not speak its name , but he expresses it through seeking out adolescents and bringing them back to his pad . 
what bothered some audience members was the presentation of big john in an oddly empathetic light . 
he's an even-tempered , funny , robust old man who actually listens to the kids' problems ( as opposed to their parents and friends , both caught up in the high-wire act of their own confused lives . ) 
he'll have sex-for-pay with them only after an elaborate courtship , charming them with temptations from the grown-up world . 
l . i . e . stands for long island expressway , which slices through the strip malls and middle-class homes of suburbia . 
filmmaker michael cuesta uses it as a ( pretty transparent ) metaphor of dangerous escape for his 15-year old protagonist , howie ( paul franklin dano ) . 
in his opening voice-over , howie reveals a morbid preoccupation with death on the road , citing the l . i . e . 
highway deaths of filmmaker alan j . pakula , songwriter harry chapin , and his own mother on exit 52 . 
he's both fascinated and disturbed by the l . i . e . , and those feelings are projected onto big john ( who follows howie around in his bright red car , but never makes a move to force the boy to do something he doesn't want to do . 
this makes him much more complex than the usual child molesters seen in movies -- he's a beast , but ashamed of it . ) 
l . i . e . would have worked best as a half-hour short film about howie's ill-advised foray into big john's haven . 
there is unnecessary padding with howie's miserable dad ( bruce altman ) in the hot seat for a white-collar crime , degenerate youngsters who get their kicks from robbing middle-class houses , and some homoerotic shenanigans with wise-ass gary terrio ( billy kay ) , a handsome artful dodger . 
rather than add to the themes of suburban ennui ( not that we needed another movie on that subject ) , these awkward subplots pad out the running time to adequate feature length . 
concurrently , the relationship between howie and big john is evenly paced and exceptionally well acted . 
cox , sporting a baseball cap and a faded marine tattoo , is all bluff and bluster . 
dano is quiet and at first glance seems so withdrawn as to be transparent . 
we're so used to child actors whose dramatic choices are broad and obvious ( calling haley joel ! ) , it's surprising to see one who actually listens throughout any given scene . 
the restraint is admirable . 
but l . i . e . 's screenplay doesn't always give them the best material . 
when howie reads big john a walt whitman poem , the moment feels a bit too precious . 
director michael cuesta lingers on an ecstatic reaction shot of big john , who may as well be hearing glenn gould performing bach's goldberg variations . 
it's too much . 
there are also some obvious dramatic contrivances involving big john's other boy toy ( walter masterson ) , jealous over the newbie . 
this plot thread predictably leads to violence . 
not content to be a haunting , observational portrait of teen alienation in a royally screwed up world ( like terry zwigoff's superb ghost world ) , cuesta lacks the confidence in his own work to end on an ambivalent note . 
it's typical of unimaginative cinema to wrap things up with a bullet , sparing the writers from actually having to come up with a complex , philosophical note . 
in this regard , l . i . e . 
 ( and countless other indie films ) share something in common with blockbuster action films : problems are solved when the obstacle is removed . 
how often does real life work this way ? 
to extend the question : if a movie is striving for realism , do dramatic contrivances destroy the illusion ? 

seen july 8 , 1998 at the crossgates cinema 18 , ( albany , ny ) , theater #7 , at 8 : 15 p . m . with my mom using hoyts cinema cash . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good sound , picture , and seats] 
it's very rare that any medium of entertainment can give one an authentic , vivid sense of reality and life . 
all stories are about select moments of time and places in the characters' lives , but only the truly great ones are able to define their realities well enough so the audience can experience it just as the characters do . 
therefore , " gone with the wind " deserves accolades for its ability to tell the epic story it does , in such a crafted , intricate , and entertaining manner . 
it's a crowning achievement , not only in filmmaking , but for storytelling itself . 
the film takes place in georgia before , during , and after the civil war . 
this plays a major factor in the film's success . 
to use such a historic setting presents many possibilities and problems since no one was alive at the time to verify its accuracy . 
it might also seem cliche , boring and other such deterent factors to potential viewers . 
can a story set so long ago be relatable now ? 
the film confronts all these problems , paradoxically , by not cronfronting them . 
it doesn't simply plug in the " right thing " at the " right time , " it creates an entire reality where everything makes sense and said concerns are irrelevant . 
building a strong foundation is important to all forms of media , without which , what is there to build on ? 
we're given some backstory here and learn a little about our characters , especially our main character , scarlett o'hara ( leigh ) , a beautiful southern belle with a will of steel , a cunning wit , and a tremendous sense of liberty in such an oppressive time . 
she knows how her society works , wherein everything she does can and will play a role in the shaping of her life and those around her . 
right from the beginning we realize how determined she is to have her way no matter what the consequences may be . 
being the most sought-after woman allows her to manipulate men ( and their women ) to ensure she gets her way , whether it be obvious ( i . e . 
who will be the one to get her food ) , or subtle ( i . e . 
getting married just to spite someone ) . 
the man she claims to love is ashley wilkes ( howard ) , a modest gentleman who does not seem to have the same passion for her as she does for him . 
he isn't so arrogant and demanding as scarlett , in fact , he's engaged to a woman with a personality much more like his . 
her name is melanie ( de havilland ) , and she is one of the sweetest , kindest , and most likable characters one will ever see . 
she and scarlett become very dear friends , but she never suspects the jealously scarlett has for her , and the love she has for her husband . 
her meekness is both her strongest and weakest characteristic - it defines who she is , but doesn't give her much emotional self-defense . 
acting a catalyst to the love triangle , and to the story as a whole is the daper , stong-willed , cunning , cocky southern business and military man captain rhett butler ( gable ) . 
he's quite a character all right - everyone listens to what he has to say even though he's got a bad reputation . 
butler makes no apologies for his vast amount of money nor his behavior . 
he tells everyone the much-needed truth in the rigid caste-like society where freewill doesn't seem to exist , everything is done out of honor and tradition . 
for example , in his first appearance butler tells his fellow southerners there's no way the south could defeat the north if war were to break out . 
this angers them , not for his lack of faith , but because he has the gall to say it aloud and boastfully at that . 
 " do we have ammunition factories ? 
do we have food ? 
do we have a navy ? 
all we have is tobacco . " 
all true statements and yet the south still insists he's wrong . 
butler is a shifty character to be sure , but he takes such pride in his arrogance it's appealing . 
scarlett notices this too when she first sees him , and from the look butler gives her , we know he's not going to stop until he has her . 
but scarlett can't get past her need for ashley , and during a scene which sets the stage for the grand story , butler learns of this and continues to throw it back at scarlett forever . 
and so the story goes on , with scarlett being thrown obstacle after obstacle in her life . 
the conflicts she must overcome range from taking care of her entire family to finding a proper husband , especially after she is " marked " for life when her first husband dies . 
this gives the film many opportunities to bring in more characters into the epic story . 
some are vital for only a few scenes , but their true signifcance will endure throughout the film . 
in most films only a few characters exist for support in background , but this film is more realistic and believable as it incorporates a supporting cast the size of a small town and everyone has signficance . 
even people in the background seem more than just extras wandering the set . 
the costuming design is outstanding so that the film makes for a real sense of time and place . 
the filmmakers could have easily set more scenes indoors and narrowly focused to avoid having to show the outside , real world , but these types of simple approaches are never taken . 
the first half of the film depicts the traumatic experience the south faced at the last days of the civil war . 
fleming is able to convey the horror of it all by painting an image of destruction and letting the viewer decide just how bad it is . 
one scene has scarlett working as a nurse at a military hospital while we hear a soldier in the background screaming , " no ! 
not my leg ! 
don't cut off my leg ! " 
another scene shows her simplying trying to cross a street , but as the camera pulls back , we see that her path is blocked by hundreds of wounded soldiers , but it is their moaning that's more graphic than all the bloody gore could ever be . 
as the second half begins , the film concentrates more on scarlett as a completely independent woman who single-handedly takes care of her family and melanie just to spite the tyrany of the north . 
she manages to resurrect the family plantation , but all the willpower she has can't help her when she must pay exuberhant taxes set by the north after the south's ultimate defeat . 
this brings rhett butler back into the picture and thus begins their torrid love- hate relationship . 
most of the second half of the film is somehow related to the relationship ( or lack thereof ) between rhett and scarlett . 
each uses the other for personal gain , but at the same time they still feel an intimate connection with each other . 
scarlett continues to use her manipulative powers over men to get what she wants and because rhett can't help but want her more every time she tries to one-up him such as marrying another man and taking over his business . 
they say opposites attract , but the conflict between rhett and scarlett goes way beyond opposing personalities , it borders on magnetic polarization . 
they need each other and know this , yet they never seem truly happy together . 
perhaps they mistake love for passion , and the film leaves it up to us to make this call . 
both have things the other wants and vice versa , but when they compromise , is it just to get their own way or because they actually care for each other . 
love and the perception of love are two completely separate things and throughout the final act of the film , we're left wondering if rhett and scarlett ever truly loved each other and why . 
gable and leigh do have great chemistry , always leaving the viewer wondering which emotions were authentic and which were manufacture . 
all ? 
none ? 
either way is possible and it's a mystery that cannot be solved even upon repeated viewings . 
it's safe to say most of us won't live such overly dramatic lives as those in " gone with the wind , " but it's still a masterpiece for its ability to give us a sense that we've just experienced a life's worth of joy and pain . 

the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and " real " movies . 
consider for a moment what a television producer would do with a book that features a fatal school bus accident and a lawyer out to sign up the bereaved -- lots of hot sensationalism interrupted with breaks to sell beer and toothpaste . 
top-flight writer and director atom egoyan delivers instead a film with tremendous power whose most notable trait is its touching subtlety . 
based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks , the movie represents a rethinking of the story's structure , not merely a literal adaptation of the novel . 
told in linear form by four narrators in the book , egoyan's version happens instead in overlapping time sequences and without a narrator . 
the author is even on record as applauding egoyan's changes . 
in the press notes the book's author describes the story as " a parable of lost children . " 
he says it asks what a town does in the absence of its children . 
picking up on this , egoyan has a flashback in which a sitter , nicole burnell , played with grace by sarah polley , reads parts of " the pied piper " from an old , illustrated book to her two charges . 
periodically throughout the picture , nicole's readings are heard in voice-over . 
you have never heard this moving poem read so sweetly or in such an appropriate moment . 
they and the rest of the town's children come into harm's way -- some live and others are seriously injured . 
and the entire small canadian town where the accident occurs is never the same again . 
although the physical damage is inflicted mainly on the children , the adults bear the emotional scars of the loss . 
ian holm , in arguably the best performance of his distinguished career , plays mitchell stephens , an intense man of quiet misery . 
mitchell is the outsider in the story set in a small , snow-encrusted community in the british columbian wilderness . 
his mission there is a singular one , to sign up the parents so that he can sue someone , anyone , on their behalf . 
if this seems crass , well it is , but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot . 
the story unfolds slowly and always believably . 
each little aspect has its own fascination . 
as mitchell interviews wendell and rita walker , played with quiet realism by maury chaykin and alberta watson , he has a simple task . 
he wants them to suggest some model couple in the village who has a lost a child so that he can use that couple to form the basis of the suit . 
wendell ticks off one town member after another and then , as one can in a small town , enumerates each person's numerous faults . 
although the town is no peyton place , people there do have their foibles . 
one of the best parents in the town appears to be billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who rides his pickup behind the school bus everyday just so he can wave good-bye to his kids . 
well , single parent billy's fault is that he has regularly scheduled trysts with the married rita . 
his confessions to rita about his feelings of loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the story . 
the accident itself , a simple one of a bus hitting a patch of ice , isn't shown until the middle of the picture , but , nevertheless , the mystery about it builds throughout the film . 
although the picture is no detective story , finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme in a movie that is primarily a character study of a town gripped by tragedy . 
as the injured bus driver , gabrielle rose , dolores driscoll plays the role of a dedicated individual who loves kids with a passion and for whom the tragedy takes on special meaning . 
to round out the story , mitchell has his own private tragedy to bear . 
his daughter zoe ( caerthan banks ) is a drug addict who has bounced in and out of one half-way house and recovery center after another . 
fond of calling her dad on his cell phone so she can ask for money or help , she interrupts him at many emotionally charged moments as he attempts to sign up the townsfolk . 
 ( " i can help you , " mitchell tries to reassure billy . 
 " not unless you can raise the dead , " billy snaps back . 
mitchell's pitch is never an easy one and worrying about zoe only makes it harder . ) 
mychael danna's haunting music sets the stage for tragedy . 
the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping in its outdoor grandeur , but it is in the warm , shadowy , intimate moments indoors where it works best . 
the show , which is ripe for emotional manipulation , never plays with its audience . 
still , when the house lights go up , you may feel as i did . 
i could barely breathe ; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed . 
more than anything , the film is like a master painting . 
each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop of paint . 
with the final color in place , the masterpiece is complete , and the ending credits roll . 
the sweet hereafter runs 1 : 50 . 
it is rated r for mature themes , sexuality and some profanity and would be fine teenagers . 

you'd think that after awhile hollywood would stop trying to make movies out of video games . 
it hasn't worked so far . 
 " street fighter ? " 
 " super mario brothers ? " 
 " wing commander ? " 
 " mortal kombat ? " 
not a watchable film in the bunch . 
still i held out some hope for " tomb raider . " 
after all , the game's premise is heavily influenced by the indiana jones trilogy and all the mummy movies , so there are cinematic elements imbedded in the concept . 
however , despite the potential of the project , " tomb raider " proves to be yet another bomb . 
the plot is a convoluted accumulation of nonsense probably borrowed from a dozen bad movies . 
there's a once-ever-5000-years alignment of planets coming up , and the illuminati have to find both halves of an ancient triangle that controls time in order to take over the world . 
of course , the ancient folks who divided the triangle buried the halves in tombs on opposite sides of the world . 
our heroine , lady lara croft ( angelina jolie ) , finds the key that opens the tombs in relics that her dead father ( jon voight ) dug up . 
she figures that if she gets the triangle , she can bring her dad back from the dead . 
of course , no one was expecting much of a plot from this movie anyway . 
in both video games and action movies , the plot is just an excuse for the action sequences . 
however , the action in " tomb raider " shows little style or originality . 
there's lots of shooting and some kung fu fightin' , but none of it progresses beyond the level of a cheap direct-to-cable flick . 
the other goofy archeologist flick of the summer , " the mummy returns , " was much better ; it had its flaws , but its action was creative and large-scale . 
since winning her academy award for " girl , interrupted , " jolie hasn't taken any projects that would display her acting talents . 
 " tomb raider " seems to be more interested in displaying her breasts ; so much attention is drawn to them that it's a shame there's no oscar for best performance by a wonderbra . 
while we don't see much of her acting ability ( with the exception of a wonderful upper-crust british accent ) , we do get a hint of jolie's less savory side . 
considering the rumors of incest that hang over jolie and her supposed obsession with death , having lara be obsessed with resurrecting her dead father ( and uninterested in any of the living males around her ) seems a poor choice . 
having jolie's real life father jon voight play the dead dad makes it even creepier . 
i haven't decided what to make of director simon west yet . 
his first feature was the star-studded disaster " con air , " but my opinion of him improved with " the general's daughter , " which was thick with sultry atmosphere . 
now this train wreck . 
i hope he improves again because his next project is the big screen version of the cult tv series " the prisoner . " 
hollywood has already screwed up " the avengers , " and " the prisoner " represents a chance for redemption . 
 ( by the way , speaking of british tv , " red dwarf " fans should look for chris " rimmer " barrie in his first major film role ) . 

synopsis : a man whose lover , paris , was murdered agrees to test out an experimental virtual reality home unit system . 
the subject escapes from the real world and his current girlfriend , laura , and becomes addicted to virtual reality , which , due to a design flaw in his unit , recreates the dead paris . 
comments : virtual seduction , executive produced by roger corman and lance h . robbins , serves as a cheaply-made precursor to strange days , a far superior film . 
both movies deal with desperate men who have trouble relating to their current lovers because they are ( ab ) using technology to be with former lovers ( in strange days , the technology utilized recorded dreams rather than virtual reality ) . 
interestingly , both films also take place a couple of years from now during the turn of the new millenium , though strange days uses the setting far more effectively . 
this exemplifies the problem with virtual seduction . 
it's not bad for what it is : low-budget science fiction concerning the psychological dangers of virtual reality . 
unfortunately , it's been done before and since in much better films , a fact which ultimately leaves the sci-fi fan bored by this movie . 
virtual seduction has many faults ( one of them is the fact that the video inexplicably has its own trailer before it begins ) . 
the film's script explores the possibilities of virtual reality interestingly at first , but its treatment of the subject matter gets heavy-handed and wooden as the movie progresses . 
many important scenes seem too dark ; the lighting could have been improved significantly . 
the cast , a collection of veteran b-movie actors and sitcom regulars , do only a mediocre job in their roles . 
jeff fahey , of the original lawnmower man , convincingly , though unenergetically , plays the lead character . 
carrie genzel plays paris , the vr lover , but ami dolenz , as the current love interest , seems like a much more interesting and attractive character with a caring personality , which doesn't lend credence to the film's premise . 
meschach taylor , of the once popular designing women sitcom , adequately plays a scientist working on the project , but his performance isn't something to write home about either . 
virtual seduction is one of those harmless movies to which you could do some light manual labor and not mind having it on in the background . 
in other words , one could fold laundry while glancing up at it every now and then , but it's rather boring to just sit and watch . 
the movie is surprisingly not as violent as one expects from b-movies in this genre , but it is still an adult r-rated film due to sexual situations and a suicide attempt . 
this turkey , ultimately , isn't awful , but it's not particularly interesting or unique either . 
don't be seduced into watching this movie unless you've got several loads of laundry and nothing else to watch . 

capsule : side-splitting comedy that follows its own merciless logic almost through to the end . . . 
but not without providing a good deal of genuine laughs . 
most comedies these days have one flaw . 
they're not funny . 
they think they're funny , but they are devoid of anything really penetrating or dastardly . 
occasionally a good funny movie sneaks past the deadening hollywood preconceptions of humor and we get a real gem : ruthless people , for instance , which established a microcosm of a setup and played it out to the bitter end . 
liar liar is built the same way and is just about as funny . 
this is one of the few movies i've seen where i was laughing consistently almost all the way through : instead of a couple of set-pieces that inspired a laugh ( think of the dismal fatal instinct ) , the whole movie works like clockwork . 
jim carrey playes a high-powered lawyer , to whom lying is as natural as breathing . 
there is one thing he takes seriously , though : his son , and we can sense the affection that they have for each other right away . 
but his wife is divorced and seeing another man , and now it looks like they may move away together . 
the son goes with them , of course . 
the movie sets up this early material with good timing and a remarkable balance of jim carrey's over-the-top persona with reality . 
then the plot springs into action : after being snubbed ( not deliberately ) by his father at his birthday , the kid makes a wish as he blows out the birthday candles : that for just one day , dad can't lie . 
he gets the wish . 
what happens next is sidesplitting . 
everything turns into a confrontation : when cornered by a bum for some change , he shouts , " no ! 
i'm not giving you any money because i know you'll spend it on booze ! 
all i want to do is to get to the office without having to step over the debris of our decaying society ! " 
he can't even get into an elevator without earning a black eye . 
and what's worse , he's now gotten himself into an expensive divorce settlement that requires him to twist the truth like abstract wire sculpture . 
carrey , who i used to find unfunny , has gotten better at his schtick , even if it's a limited one . 
he uses it to great effect in this movie . 
there is a scene where he tries to test his ability to lie and nearly demolishes his office in the process ( there's a grin breaking out across my face right now , just remembering the scene ) . 
he can't even write the lie ; his fingers twitch , his body buckles like someone in the throes of cyanide poisoning , and when he tries to talk it's like he's speaking in tongues . 
equally funny is a scene where he beats himself to a pulp ( don't ask why ) , tries to drink water to keep from having outbursts in the courtroom ( it fails , with semi-predictable results ) , and winds up biting the bullet when he gets called into the boardroom to have everyone ask what they think of them . 
this scene alone may force people to stop the tape for minutes on end . 
the movie sustains its laughs and also its flashes of insight until almost the end . 
a shame , too , because the movie insists on having a big , ridiculous climax that involves carrey's character flagging down a plane using a set of motorized stairs , then breaking his leg , etc . a simple reconciliation would do the trick . 
why is this stupid pent-up climax always obligatory ? 
it's not even part of the movie's real agenda . 
thankfully , liar liar survives it , and so does carrey . 
maybe they were being merciful , on reflection . 
if i'd laughed any more , i might have needed an iron lung . 

from a major league baseball radio broadcast , featuring play-by- play man harry canary and color man whitey hashbrown , with special guest commentator james berardinelli . 
hc : as we go to the top of the 8th , we're joined in the booth by film critic james berardinelli , who's here fresh from seeing the new baseball movie , major league : back to the minors , the third in the popular saga taking a lighter look at the majors . 
nice to see you , jim . 
as a big baseball fan and a movie reviewer , can you give us the scoop on the new flick ? 
jb : my opinion : the producers should have stopped while they were ahead , and that was nine years ago . 
one entry was definitely enough , and i'm surprised there was a third after the anemic showing and low quality of major league 2 . this latest installment has all the earmarks of something that should have been released direct-to-video . 
it's worse than a mediocre made-for-tv feature . 
i should also mention that this movie likely won't play all that well in cleveland . 
now that the real indians are perennial contenders , they have been replaced by the minnesota twins as the cinematic sadsacks . 
actually , most of the action involves the twins' aaa minor league club , the buzz , rather than the actual major league franchise . 
hc : sorry to interrupt , jim , but we still have to do play-by-play for the game on the field . 
leading off this inning is john warren . 
he steps into the batter's box and takes kent's pitch low for ball one . 
wh : so , the story's strictly minor league , right ? 
what's it about ? 
jb : scott bakula , the guy from quantum leap , plays career minor league pitcher gus cantrell . 
when twins owner roger dorn , once again portrayed by corbin bernsen , needs a new manager for his aaa team , he offers the job to gus , who is now faced with two daunting tasks : turn the team around and groom hot prospect downtown anderson ( played by walt goggins ) for a promotion to " the show . " 
with the help of former major leaguers pedro cerrano ( dennis haysbert ) , rube baker ( eric bruskotter ) , and isuro tanaka ( takaaki ishibashi ) , gus gets the buzz on the right track . 
in fact , he is so successful that he earns the enmity of the jealous manager of the big-league club , leonard huff ( played with over-the-top relish by ted mcginley ) . 
soon , dorn has arranged an exhibition game that pits gus' overachieving group against huff's overpaid , last-place bunch . 
wh : can we guess who wins ? 
jb : the results have all the suspense of watching the videotape of a game when you've already seen the box score . 
on top of that , none of the mock-ups are presented with much flair . 
they're not just boring ; they're lackluster . 
but the major league movies have never been about drama or tension ; they've been about using baseball situations to generate laughs . 
hc : warren fouls off a fastball . 
1 and 1 . 
wh : are there lots of yuks in this one ? 
jb : not one , from start to finish . 
i enjoyed the first major league because it was reasonably fresh and funny . 
okay , a lot of the jokes were sophomoric , but they made me laugh . 
the two sequels haven't just been stale , but their humor quotient has been abysmally low . 
even bob uecker's once-sharp one-liners have turned lame , and they're the closest the film comes to being even vaguely amusing . 
hc : here's the 1-1 pitch . 
looooooong drive ? fair or foul ? foul ball ! 
the count goes to 1 and 2 . 
wh : does the film at least get the baseball details correct ? 
jb : yes . 
there aren't any glaring errors like there were in one of the best-ever baseball movies , the natural . 
but i'd gladly trade a technically accurate film for one with a good story , believable characters , or even a little genuine humor . 
heck , the naked gun is a better baseball comedy than major league : back to the minors . 
wh : it's nice to see old friends one more time , isn't it ? 
like cerrano , tanaka , and dorn . 
jb : depends on whether you really care that anyone is back . 
there aren't any real characters here ? just an assortment of cliched oddballs . 
yeah , the voodoo hitter , the catcher who can't throw back to the pitcher , the japanese player , and the conceited player-turned-owner have all returned , but who really cares ? 
they have no depth . 
notable absences include tom berenger's veteran and charlie sheen's " wild thing . " 
we don't really miss them , though . 
hc : breaking ball , low and outside . 
2 and 2 . 
wh : so you're saying that we should give this one a miss ? 
jb : that's right . 
to use baseball terminology , it's a three-pitch strikeout . 
if you're looking for a good movie that involves baseball , try popping the natural , field of dreams , bull durham , or even the first major league into the vcr . 
actually , this is an oddly-timed release , since baseball fans are likely to be spending more time in parks than in theaters . 
even the minor league seasons are already underway . 
don't bother with major league : back to the minors . 
it's a wretched time- waster . 
wh : thanks for the advice . 
jb : you're welcome . 
hc : and here's the 2-2 pitch . 
fouled back , right into this booth . 
hey , jim , heads up ! 
oops . 
somebody better get him some ice for that . 
he may be good at deflecting bad baseball movies , but he needs to learn not to duck into foul balls . 
odd how warren seemed to aim that ball right at him , almost as if he has a grudge to settle . 
anyway , back to the action on the field ? 

it's always a bad sign when the core audience of a film -- children -- are either walking out early or are half-asleep when the credits roll at the end of a film . 
that about sums up the dreadful ugliness of 102 dalmatians , a cold pea soup of cute animals , stupid home alone antics , a boring puppy love subplot between dumb humans , and glenn close reprising her best joan crawford impression . 
indeed , walt disney is rolling over in his grave again , cursing john hughes' name for making the original live-action 101 dalmatians , one of the worst kiddie flicks of all time , and now its sequel . 
the main culprit behind the hideousness of 102 dalmatians is its predecessor , 101 dalmatians . 
the original made more than $100 million dollars at the box office , spawned a torrid collection of " collectible " items that ended up months later in the discount bins of wal-marts across the country , and generally made every kid on the planet want a damn dalmatian pup for christmas . 
well , it's been about four years since then , and dalmatian fever is coming back , and this time it's digitally enhanced . 
here's the story . 
cruella de vil ( glenn close ) is released from prison due to the " cure " of her puppy homicide urges by one dr . pavlov . 
 ( oh , how witty . ) 
she rejoins the world as a dog lover and is assigned to a probation officer , who oddly turns out to be her victim from the original film . 
cruella then becomes ella -- dog lover -- until the plot twists , like a dog with his leash caught on the back of a moving truck , and she becomes the evil vixen again . 
a kidnapping plot unfurls again as cruella decides she still needs her dalmatian coat , but she now needs 102 dalmatians instead of the commonly used 101 dalmatian formula . 
at this point , i was envying those kids filing out of the theater . 
how low have glenn close and gerard depardieu ( as the film's villain ) sunk in the film business ? 
it's almost laughable in a sadistic way to watch close walk around in costumes that seem to be pulled from the wardrobe of flash gordon . 
and depardieu . . . 
how can a french guy have a bad french accent ? 
and never mind the toilet brush haircut . 
the only minutely positive selling point i can even think to point out is the talking bird with a british accent ( courtesy of eric idle ) that thinks he's a rottweiler . 
now that's funny . 

dr dolittle ( 20th century fox ) running time : 1 hour 25 minutes starring eddie murphy directed by betty thomas riding high on the success of the nutty professor ( 1996 ) , murphy returns in this abysmal comedy . 
he plays doctor john dolittle , who as a child had the ability to understand animals . 
however , after being 'exorcised' he loses this ability , and we fast forward to see dolittle in a crummy job surrounding by crummy people ( most notably dr mark weller , played by oliver platt . ) 
however , with a bonk on the head his ability to understand animals returns , and 'comedy' is ready and waiting to happen . 
except comedy never does happen . 
doctor dolittle , even with the excellent premise , rarely manages to raise a laugh . 
poor old murphy looks bored stiff throughout the whole movie , and his performance suffers . 
the manic murphy we saw in the 80's is gone , his more mature ( and more boring ) twin appears to be getting all the work in the 90's . 
the voices of the animals , which include albert brooks , chris rock ( the 'new' eddie murphy ) and norm mcdonald as 'lucky' the dog are marginally better , and at least they put enthusiasm in the movie . 
sadly , most of their lines are pretty dumb . 
and they're not 'funny' dumb , like dumb & dumber ( 1994 ) , but just boring dumb . 
the film even succumbs to fart jokes halfway through , in a desperate attempt to raise some laughs . 
there are a few good jokes in the script , but they are few and far between . 
if i had to choose a favourite performance , it would probably be albert brooks tiger , who has a certain charm about him . 
sadly , he's barely in the movie , and rock's really annoying hamster is given far too much screen time . 
joke wise , we are thankfully , spared the mocking and insulting type of jokes that featured heavily in the nutty professor . 
the director , betty thomas , has , well , done better films . 
she bought us private parts ( 1997 ) and the brady bunch movie ( 1995 ) which were , sadly , much better than this . 
the scenes lack any charm , she just gets the job done . 
the animals themselves , are reasonable realistic , although most of them are obviously puppets . 
there's an impressive looking tiger , however , and the lip sync is pretty good . 
you'd have no problem guessing that most of the close up's are puppets , however , with their jilted movement . 
i was hoping jim hensons workshop , who created the furry friends , would have done a better job . 
doctor dolittle , in the end , is a disappointment for everyone involved . 
murphy has done much better movies ( i . e 
trading places ) the director has seen better days , and even the creatures aren't that good . 
the target audience , aged between 7-13 , who are undemanding , will probably like it however , thanks to it's dumbed down humour . 
everyone else , however , should give doctor dolittle a miss . 

what is a scary movie anyhow ? 
is it a movie where a person gets ripped to shreds ? 
is it where a person is being chased by some damned teenager who wants revenge ? 
possibly its some guy with a hook who wants to know what you did last summer . 
what ever happened to horror movies , where the horror was in the atmosphere , and in the characters . 
movies like " halloween " and " psycho " which revolutionized horror genre forever , but wait in 1973 came a movie based on the bestselling book by william peter blatty , entitled " the exorcist " , the movie opened to rave reviews , and scared audiences to death , now in the year 2000 " the exorcist " comes back to the big screen in a version you've never seen complete with six channel digital surround sound , and fifteen minutes of new footage never before seen as long as a new ending . 
chris mcniell is an actress living in georgetown washington with her twelve year old daughter regan . 
while working on a new film , chris still stays close to regan , but starts to wonder why her bed shakes at night , and why regan starts to have convulsions all of a sudden . 
when chris finds out that regan is possessed by a demon , she shuns at the fact of it , but considers getting a priest to help her daughter . 
father karras ( jason miller ) is the man they bring in , his mother has just died , and still in mourning he decides to help this little girl . 
christ , father karras , and their nanny sharon ( kitty winn ) have to sit and wait until a man shows up , that man is the exorcist , and that man will help this little girl . 
excrutiatingly scary , the exorcist is a classic horror film , which twenty seven years later still scares audiences half to death . 
now we get to the experience " the exorcist " the way it was meant to be seen in a director's cut which incorpates fifteen minutes of new footage cut by friedkin at the time of the release for content and time , a new ending has been added as well , and adds more of a lighter feeling to the movie , which i prefer the original darker ending more . 
the movie has also been remastered in a wonderful six channel digital sound mix , and is amazing . 
the voices are all clear , the music pours out on you and engulfs you in richness . 
as a director friedkin has been well known for other films , but his standout film is " the exorcist " nominated for several academy awards it one a few , but was somehow doubted best picture , best actress ( ellen burstyn ) and best supporting actress ( linda blair ) who at the age of i believe thirteen does a wonderful job of being a little girl , alone , possessed and unable to stop what is going on . 
ellen burstyn i think gives her best performance to date , and can be seen currently in " requiem for a dream " to which she is getting rave reviews for . 
jason miller ( jason patrik's dad ) is amazing as father karras , and his performance will be forever embedded in my mind , to me he is the character who makes the entire film float along . 
i was saddened when i saw this film with an audience of mostly younger people to see them laughing at this movie , i in no way , think that this movie is comical , yes some of the stuff regan says is funny , but they were laughing at her head spinning , and the green pea soup , come on people this is some creepy stuff ! 
anyway the re-release of the film has managed to make $40 million dollars , and is still going . 
hopefully one day they re-release it again in twenty years for more generations to come to enjoy . 

everything in the phantom you have seen many times before and there is nothing new presented here . 
wincer displays absolutely no skill in setting up an exciting action sequence . 
billy zane is wooden as the hero . 
kristy swanson is given very little to do , and does very little with it . 
treat williams , looking like rhett butler but sounding like mickey mouse , is one of the worst villains i have ever seen in a movie . 
only catherine zeta jones , as one of williams cohorts turns in a good performance . 
she has energy and spunk , which the movie needed much more of . 
oh yeah , the phantom also has a secret identity but this is so poorly played out you won't even care . 
about the only things i can recommend are a good performance by jones , and some colorful scenery . 
however , if youre looking for a fun family movie , go watch the underrated flipper . 
this is not a good movie . 

i have never seen a man so in love with himself than george lucas . 
with the overt success of the three original star wars films , lucas has become , not necessarily a filmmaker , but the head cheeze at a huge toy company , with the phantom menace the new product on the shelve . 
only this toy was made for $115 million , but every kid wants it , and , like all other expensive toys , falls apart within an hour after playing with it . 
the product in question , star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace ( jeez ! ) , is pure and simple : its about the money , baby ! 
no one in their right mind would create such a fiasco if they knew it wouldn't make a ton of money before its fourth week of release . 
i come to the sw franchise as a stranger , since i have absolutely no idea why the sw movies are so popular . 
i find them rather boring and full of nothing but eye candy . 
phantom menace is like the first sw , minus 10 . 
nothing in the whole concept is remotely enjoyable . 
even the special effects seem rather bland . 
the story in this new one is a mindless mess . . . the 
acting wooden . . . and the action sequences like something out of a video game . 
sw : phantom menace is one of the worst films of the year so far . 
with a title like sw e1 : tpm , lucas has one big head on those shoulders . 
i thought chris carter did for releasing an x-files movie , although , that movie adaptation was an excellent way to spend two hours . 
pm is one long headache . 

john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel . 
you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information . 
it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive . 
in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned . 
about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda . 
afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication . 
she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie . 
audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings . 
dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl . 
feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model . 
now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases . 
species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist . 
forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script . 
the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years . 
 ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings . 
even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . ) 
the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt . 
the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms . 
the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos . 
she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be . 
her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area . 
escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her . 
she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 . 
the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call . 
neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided . 
whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . " 
the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina . 
kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak . 
h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly . 
the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it . 
all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in . 
there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together . 
the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them . 
on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd . 
species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing . 
my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters . 
mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language ) 
stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995 

_soldier_ is hands down one of the worst movies a person could ever have to sit through that doesn't have jean claude van damme in it . 
i could liken it to the sci-fi cheese that was the hollywood product-of-choice back in the early 80s , but that would be too much of a compliment . 
if there is a movie theater in hell , this film is playing there 24 hours a day . 
the story , such that there is , revolves around todd ( kurt russell ) , an automaton of a man who has been raised from birth to be a merciless soldier in a not-too-distant ultra-conservative future ( is there any other kind ? ) 
after years of desensitization at a military academy full of other boys just like him , todd becomes a ground fighter in a series of wars all over the galaxy . 
who the enemies in these wars are is never revealed , but the few glimpses of todd in battle show that it doesn't matter , because innocent hostages are wiped out as indifferently as the bad guys . 
after ten minutes of this nihilistic trash -- yes folks , there's more -- we see todd as a buff , scarred adult , now so accustomed to the carnage that no confrontation at all causes him to break a sweat . 
there's a new wrinkle , though . 
todd and his brethren are declared obsolete , and a new batch of soldiers takes their place . 
after losing a sanctioned battle with _dragon_'s jason scott lee , the seemingly dead todd is dumped by a flying ice-cube tray ( well , that's what is looked like ) on a remote garbage planet . 
if you predict that todd meets a bunch of outcast settlers on this planet , and that they band together to fight a bunch of bad guys coming to destroy them , you're way ahead of the game . 
the renegade society on this trash heap is so clich you half-expect tina turner and master blaster to come strolling into frame any minute . 
it's surprising that _soldier_ is the brain-child of _blade runner_ co-writer david webb peoples . 
unlike that mind-twisting classic , this film contains just barely enough dialogue to fill about three double-spaced pages . 
add into the mix the _mortal kombat_'s paul anderson inept direction , and it's easy to see how _soldier_ turned out so bad . 
and the special effects ! 
remember the flying steam irons in hardware wars ? 
gary busey is in this movie . 
'nuff said . 
_soldier_ is proof that hollywood still has plenty of bad ideas sitting in its script vaults . 
that this sad film made it to the silver screen should encourage plenty of aspiring screenwriters out there that there is hope after all . 
now if you'll excuse me , i have to go weep for the future . 

the muppet movie is the first , and the best movie among the ever-growing list of muppet movies . 
the muppet movie tells the story of how our hero , kermit the frog , came to be a star . 
a delightful movie for all ages , the muppet movie is * bursting * with cameo appearances by countless hollywood stars of the 80's and today . 
the muppet movie begins in a movie theater , where all of the muppet stars are anxiously awaiting the first showing . 
once everyone is settled down , the movie inside of the movie begins . 
it starts out with kermit in a swamp , playing his banjo and singing ( this shot required jim henson to spend hours underwater ) . 
kermit is discovered by bernie , a big-time hollywood agent who happens upon kermit by accident . 
bernie believes that kermit holds much potential to become a big star in hollywood . 
kermit ponders the idea of becoming a big movie star , where he could " make millions of people happy " . 
kermit decides to leave his swamp and make the trip out to hollywood . 
along the way , kermit befriends his now famous muppet companions , beginning with fozzie bear , who had been spending his days doing stand-up comedy at the el sleezo cafe , owned by james coburn . 
the two decide to team-up and continue on their way to hollywood . 
but , doc hopper ( charles durning ) , the owner of a chain of french fried frog leg restaurants has a different idea . 
he wants kermit to be his spokesman , but kermit is humiliated at the idea and spends the movie avoiding him and his assistants . 
the trip continues , with kermit and fozzie meeting miss piggy , rowlf , gonzo , the electric mayhem band , and more muppets who all share the same wish : to make it to hollywood . 
oh , and even more celebrities continue to appear . 
kermit and miss piggy continue to get to know each other a little better , including a rather funny scene at a restaurant with steve martin as the waiter . 
eventually , kermit and the group make it to hollywood . 
that is , after kermit is finally able to elude doc hopper and proclaim his freedom . 
lord lew , a big-time hollywood producer portrayed by orson welles , gives kermit his shot at stardom and gives him the go-ahead to produce a movie . 
the muppet movie is definitely a movie that is fun for all ages . 
it is also a sure-deal as one parents can watch , and enjoy along with their kids . 

the film starts out with a creepy opening sequence to which has the now classic and creepy score by writer/director/producer john carpenter who in my mind is a brilliant director , he really is . 
he wrote this film , he directed this film , he produced this film and he made the excessively creepy score to this film . 
i think he is and always will be famous for this classic which after 21 years has not lost it's popularity or it's ability to scare the wits out of people . 
i think i have seen 'halloween' over 100 times and each time i find something new and brilliant , and each time i am scared even though i know what is going to happen . 
i own three different versions of the film : a vhs regular version that came with a limited edition 20th anniversary t-shirt , a boxed edition vhs in a hardcover case digitally re-mastered with the original theatrical widescreen presentation , in a nifty plastic picture decorated box with a numbered snow-globe . 
in other words i am completely and utterly obsessed with the film . 
it has changed horror movies forever and spawned six sequels with only 2 , 4 , and 7 being truly good . 
it also spawned several cheap imitations of the film that were offensive in some ways to a true halloween fan . 
since i heard about halloween being released on dvd in a limited edition of 30 , 000 copies , i knew i had to buy one no matter what ! 
i did and man to me it's the best dvd ever manufactured with the brilliance of the film . 
no words can describe the dvd . 
in 'halloween' michael myers is a evil person whom killed his sister in cold blood 16 years ago in 1963 . 
now in 1978 grown up and in a mental hospital michael myers escapes to go back to his hometown of haddonfield , illinois , followed by his past doctor sam loomis . 
the person michael is targeting is laurie strode who is played by jamie lee curtis in her film debut . 
why is he stalking her ? 
check out halloween ii it explains it all . 
on this unholy night on october 31 , 1978 laurie strode and her two friends are going to have the time of their lives , which is trying to stay alive . 
the whole film is filled with terrifying moments most coming from just seeing michael myers walk . 
nick castle who played the shape in the first movie did an incredible job , and no other person in any other halloween flick can do what he did . 
what john carpenter did in 1978 is made a ground-breaking new film , with scares , wit , and style . 
the movie is flawless if not perfect . 
no other movie or sequel has lived up to this one , and in my opinion never will . 
'halloween' will be like 'psycho' and still be extremely popular even almost 40 years later . 
i just hope someday 'halloween' will be released in a new dolby soundtrack with the 4 extra scenes on the dvd edition . 
'halloween' isn't just another slice-and-dice horror flick , it's an intelligent , horrifying and best film experience ever made . 
see 'halloween' and be scared . . . . then 
watch it again ! 
reviewed by brandon herring october 7 , 1999 . 

with stars like sigourney weaver ( " alien " trilogy ) and academy award winner holly hunter ( the piano , raising arizona , etc . ) together in a single hollywood production , one would immediately identify the film as a potential academy award hot shot . 
sadly for copycat , though tightly scripted and nicely plot , is still at heart , a typical hollywood thriller . 
helen ( weaver ) , after a traumatic near death encounter with a serial killer , darryl ( harry connick jr . ) , has developed a phobia for being outdoors , so to speak . 
incidentally , helen is also an expert on the subject of serial killers , which make her a juicy target for serial killer wannabes . 
a year has passed and strange deaths begin to terrorise the city of san francisco . 
detective monahan ( hunter ) and getz ( mulroney ) , baffled by the unorthodox methods of killing used by the killer , seeks the professional help of helen , who , as expected was reluctant at first . 
copycat " borrows " a lot from silence of the lambs and in most cases , it did work . 
but copycat tries to be a little bit more by immersing the audience into the lives of its main characters to give them more believability , this was rather unnecessary as the scenes seem to disrupt the mood of the entire film and also . . . 
much of the time wasted could've been used to build up the suspense and injected with drama . 
even so , weaver and hunter act very well in their own departments . . . 
weaver being the vulnerable yet strong-within character ( as in aliens ) and hunter being the short , tough , texan speaking cop ( as in raising arizona ) . 
harry connick jr . , a very good jazz singer , shines as the imprisoned serial killer a la hannibal lecter . 
which comes to the moment of judgement ( drum roll please . . . ) . 
copycat is a good thriller . 
although the plot is highly predictable and one can actually predict the rest of the movie after about 45 minutes into the show , copycat survives from the moments of anticipation where the audience are held on to their seats , in anticipation of the killers next immediate move . 
this worked pretty well and will offer audiences a couple of unexpected jolts . 
nice movie to bring your girlfriend to . . . . 

i cried during _babe_ . 
i admit it . 
the special effects , the story , the great dialogue were woven together so delicately and successfully that my mind lost track that this was a " children's film " --so much so that , yes , i got a little overly sentimental . 
such , my friend , is the power of cinema . 
when word came out that they were using this newly developed f/x for a doctor dolittle update , in which eddie murphy plays the title character , and many great comic actors supply the voices , my anticipation rose to great expectations . 
they can't possibly drop the ball on this one . 
can't miss . 
can't possibly miss . 
they missed . 
what went wrong ? 
after much thought , i supply three general rules . 
 ( 1 ) don't let a television actress-turned-comedy movie director near an urbanite script ( i . e . , penny marshall's dreadful " preacher's wife " ) . 
betty thomas worked wonders with " the brady bunch movie " , but the same sitcom-airiness doesn't quite work here . 
it's as if she lifted a generic sitcom , and iced it with light doses of modern r&b . 
take away the black cast , take away the atrocious soundtrack , and you have the residue of some mid-80's kirk cameron show . 
 ( 2 ) the greater the cast , the less the individual cast-member has to do ( i . e . , 
 " con air " ) . 
it is great to have the comic voices of jenna elfman , garry schandling , john leguizimo , ellen degeneres , and gilbert godfried in your lineup , but they have nothing to do but improvise their underdeveloped , stereotyped characters , one-line-at-a-time . 
it's even worse , because sometimes their voices are so unrecognizable that you don't get the satisfaction of linking the voice to the comedian until the credits . 
now there are three character actors who do get special treatment : albert brooks brings dignity to nearly every project he's in , and the scenes as a depressed tiger do resonate a certain poignancy . 
norm mcdonald fares nearly as well , as a stray dog who learns to bond with dolittle . 
but there's little humor here . 
that rests on the shoulders of chris rock , sorely miscast and unfunny as the voice of their wise-ass guinea pig . 
even the mouth is ill-synched . 
 ( 3 ) don't let the special effects technicians walk away with the script . 
there's a certain timing that's mandatory in comedy . 
to have this timing usurped by the brilliancy of computer generated mouths or lifelike creations of jim henson's creature shop , is a travesty . 
this is not to say that special effects filled comedies or muppet movies aren't well-timed laughfests ; with the right director , they can be and have . 
here , betty thomas is clearly over her head . 
i wish i could commend the special effects , but they're merely average . 
count the number of times where the animal's mouth is turned away from the camera , or too far to notice , or ill-synched . 
this is less a " babe " and more of a " look who's barking " clone . 
you may be wondering , 'how does eddie murphy fare ? ' 
well , he came back with the exceptional " nutty professor " , and i don't doubt he can come back again . 
here , he's tied into a straight man and given little to do . 
the exceptions are when he fears he's going crazy : a far cry from his smarter-than-you'd expect routine that he's more adept at . 
it's unfortunate that he is where richard pryor was ten years ago , making lame comedies without the same bite he had given in his early years . 
after all this , what's left ? 
butt jokes . 
a _lot_ of butt jokes . 
i guess for kids that may be funny , but i was stone-faced . 
if there's a lesson the film may be telling us , is that animals have feelings too , and they care way too much for your butt . 

and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty . 
this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers . 
by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting . 
the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu . 
the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay . 
d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) is the vengeful son of a slain musketeer . 
he travels to paris to join the royal musketeers and find the man that killed his parents . 
in paris , he meets the cunning cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) , who is trying to overthrow the king , and richelieu's man-in-black associate febre ( tim roth ) , the killer of his folks . 
he finds the musketeers in paris disbanded and drunk , so he rounds up aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steven spiers ) to free the musketeer's wrongfully imprisoned leader treville from the king's prison . 
d'artagnan and his new frisky love interest/chambermaid francesca ( mena suvari ) play footsy and coo at each other as the cardinal hunts down the musketeers until finally the queen ( catherine deneuve ) ends up being captured by the menancing febre , forcing the musketeers to regroup , with d'artagnan leading the charge , and save the day . 
director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster . 
one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones . 
jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around . 
ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes . 
most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture . 
the musketeer instead weighs itself down with a predictable and monotonous screenplay by gene quintano ( sudden death ) , horrible acting by stephen rea and tim roth , and the prosaic attempt of justin chambers ( the wedding planner ) to deliver his mousy self as a leader . 
chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer ! 
and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . 

i think we should , as responsible citizens , all get together and stop jim carrey from making another movie . 
he's changing the cinema as we know it--and for the worst . 
i would willingly rewatch batman and robin rather then again sit through this miserable collection of filmic moments--prologues , epilogues , etc . the premise : a lawyer can't lie for a day . 
ho , ho . 
normally a movie made from this premise would be terrible--mr . 
carrey suceeds in making it unwatchable . 
i laughed once--and i was laughing at the sight of everyone else laughing . 
grinding doesn't begin to describe . 
it pounds on your head so forcefully and so unstoppably that , if you are a normal person , you leave feeling sick . 
when it's not trying to be funny , it's trying to be melodramatic--but it's just annoying , stupid and sappy . 
at best . 
this movie is intended to make people laugh , yes , not to be voted best picture of all time by sight and sound . 
but , it fails on every possible level . 
it fails to be funny . 
it fails to be insightful . 
it fails to be suspensful . 
it fails to be fun . 
they should pay people to see it . 
it suceeds on one level--it makes me want to get down on the ground and start thanking orson welles , for having lived . 
if you go in with the intention of coming out alive , please make sure that you are overly fond of boob , fart , pimple and fat jokes--otherwise you will go insane . 
yes , literally insane . 
stark , raving mad . 
it is boring , stupid , melodramatic and in the end ugly . 
i reccemond it strongly . 
to ed wood . 

review : ghost dog : the way of the samurai ( 1999 ) 
cast : forest whitaker , henry silva , cliff gorman , john tormey , gene riffini , victor argo , tricia vessey , isaach de bankole' , camille winbush director : jim jarmusch writer : jim jarmusch 
rating : good shot ( stars ) 
languid , yet pointed and focused , ghost dog : the way of the samurai sublimely savages our cultural fascination with the mafia and the sleek , ultra-cool , cinematic image of the hitman . 
juxtaposing the samurai's honor code of feudal japan against the tradition bound modus operandi of the american/italian mafia , it ceaselessly chips away with a sculptor's precision at the archaic foundations of both as they lumber , dinosaur-like , to function in the modern era . 
director jarmusch gleefully plays the iconoclast , ripping into mafioso precepts with splashes of acidic wit . 
using a palate of bleached colors , jarmusch lugubriously maintains a tone of desolation that belies the many sparks of laugh out loud humor punctuating the film . 
he doesn't cater to audience expectations of hyper-colorized , stylized violence and gunplay where no one dies . 
the action is presented in flat , brutal codas . 
bullets have permanence . 
death has consequences . 
the movie rises beyond standard conventions to become a meditation on the concepts of honor and loyalty . 
it is an anti-movie , of sorts . 
there are few photogenic , empathetic characters for the audience to fall in love with . 
this isn't a film that lovingly holds your hand . 
there are dark , contemplative moments and the film firmly holds you by the shoulder , just so , asserting itself for all to see . 
the fulcrum for the movie's thematic balancing act is ghost dog , a mafia hitman . 
a twist on the stereotypical image of the mob enforcer , ghost dog is a hilarious contradiction in terms . 
unlike the sleek , muscular killing machines one is accustomed to , we are given an inner city black man who is overweight and slovenly , replete with chapped , dirty hands and rumpled clothing . 
he wears a hooded sweatshirt , which he often pulls over his head , giving him a monk-like appearance . 
there are no acrobatic back flips and shiny super guns in his arsenal . 
he uses old , worn weapons and simply goes about his tasks in economical , efficient and pleasureless fashion . 
ghost dog is a disciple of the old ways of the samurai , distilling the essence of his life through the filter of a book , which he reads daily , hagakure : the way of the samurai . 
life consists of simple pleasures for him : ice cream , warm rooftop naps and good books . 
ghost dog lives , as it were , by the basic tenet expressed by his book ; one should start each day considering oneself as dead . 
living atop an abandoned building , surrounded by his flock of pet carrier pigeons , ghost dog exists in a netherworld lacking creature comforts and friends . 
he craves nothing more . 
as he puts it late in the film , " i've seen all i want to see . " 
he exists in a spiritual world of the mind , gaining moral sustenance from his readings . 
ghost dog wasn't always as he is presented . 
in several roshomon-like flashbacks , it's shown how ghost dog was assaulted by racist white males and beaten nearly to death until the timely intervention of a good samaritan , that " samaritan " being a foot soldier in an aging crime family . 
ghost dog pledges his life to the service of the man , louie ( tormey ) , as repayment . 
after years of loyal service , ghost dog is sent , by louie , to kill " handsome frank " , a made man within louie's organization who has run away with the crime boss's daughter , louise ( vessey ) . 
ghost dog wordlessly executes his task , witnessed by louise , whom he spares , as she sits watching a betty boop cartoon , clutching a copy of the book , roshomon . 
in a bit of synchronicity , louise loans the book to ghost dog . 
upset that frank was taken out by someone not from the family , the mob bosses , in turn , put out a hit on ghost dog in a perverse twist of loyalty to their assassinated comrade . 
the rest of movie holds the dated value systems of both the mafia and ghost dog up to the light of a new millennium with many acerbic asides as the two come factions come into conflict . 
the theme of old cartoons flares up time and again , each time showing cartoon violence that is in sharp counterpoint to the reality of ghost dog's world . 
each time a character is shown watching a cartoon , it's from the same era , betty boop , felix the cat , etc . , a reflection of days gone by . 
near the end , louise is watching a cartoon that's a departure from the previously shown ones . 
it's a bit of audacity on jarmusch's part that is nicely effective , despite it's surrealistic nature . 
as ghost dog floats through his world , his life is touched by two people . 
one is a sage little girl ( winbush ) who connects with ghost dog through their love of reading . 
she comes to symbolize a melding of the old ways and new sensibilities , just as louise ultimately does . 
by film's end , the fact that jamusch is so effective at illustrating the tenuous bond between the two is a testament to his skill as a writer . 
the other person in ghost dog's world is an ice cream ( de bankole' ) vendor who only speaks french , yet intuitively shares a rapport with ghost dog . 
the vendor is the literal stranger in a strange land . 
jarmusch , through rapper/composer rza , underscores his film with rap and reggae music , which at first blush seems dichotomous , but its primal rhythms serve to strengthen the fundamental nature of the movie . 
ghost dog seems to draw some type of strength from the rap music he listens to as he negotiates the streets in various stolen cars . 
 ( which , in and of itself , presents another paradox about ghost's dog's sense of honor . ) 
the head mafioso is played by henry silva with a stone faced resignation . 
of all the cartoonish mobsters , he is the only one who appears self aware of his state in the world . 
gorman plays sonny , a lieutenant who respects the old ways , yet has a quirky affinity for rap music , a love comically shown in several impromptu displays . 
ruffini seems the truest reflection of the mafia . 
he is a husk of a man , assisted by two hearing aids , who barks out advice without truly hearing what he , or others are saying . 
whitaker carries the film by using what truly great actor's use , his face . 
ghost dog is reticent to speak , often going for long periods without doing so . 
the fact that whitaker can convey such a wide range of emotion through a gesture or look is a remarkable talent . 
although the film has a deliberate pace , some of the late night drives and walks taken by ghost dog dragged the momentum down . 
truly tragic is how ghost dog misinterprets japanese honor in his final confrontation with the mob . 
he reveals himself to be so desperate for spiritual guidance through the hagakure that he fails to truly adapt it to what is real and true in his world . 
carried on the shoulders of a remarkable performance by whitaker , ghost dog rises beyond being a characterization or icon , into a figure that garners sympathy , if not a bit of pity . 

my fellow americans is a movie that at first glance looks to have little substance ( or a movie that we've all seen a million times ) , two lifetime rivals thrown together and then the fun begins . 
this is exactly what happened in this movie , but fortunately , they managed to do it in an interesting and funny way . 
the movie starts with a quick ( and i do mean quick ) glance of two presidents russell kramer ( jack lemmon ) and matt douglas ( james garner ) . 
william haney ( dan aykroyd ) and ted matthews ( john heard ) are the new president and vice president . 
there is a scandal that arises involving a kickback from a contractor and haney is positive that he buried that years ago . 
he finds a scapegoat in kramer and now everyone wants kramer and douglas dead . 
this movie was exceptional for many reasons . 
one being that they found people ( lemmon and garner ) that have good chemisty together . 
they worked very well as a unit and they mirrored each other perfectly , one being a ladies man and one being the old man ( i'll let you fiqure which is which ) . 
also , they found people that know their parts as govenment officials well . 
it seemed to me that garner played almost exactly the same role that he played in the distinquished gentleman ( except then he was a congressman ) . 
experience counts for a lot ! ! 

disney's " air bud " tells a boy-and-his-dog story with a twist -- the pooch is quite an accomplished basketball player . 
granted , for a family comedy , it's not a very funny or successful idea to begin with , but it doesn't seem to matter -- " air bud " is surprisingly solemn . 
save for occasional moments of forced slapstick , the movie wags its tale with a straight face -- not a very enjoyable approach . 
if " air bud " had realized its own absurdity , then it possibly could have been better . 
here , we're actually asked to cheer a moment when the dog marches out to save the big game , clad in two pairs of sneakers and even a jersey . 
its number ? 
k9 . 
yeah , whatever . 
the movie opens as golden retriever buddy ( as himself ) escapes from his current owner , abusive clown-for-hire norm snively ( michael jeter ) . 
he ends up in fernwell , washington , where mopey new-kid-on-the-block josh ( kevin zegers ) is trying to cope with the move and the recent death of his father . 
buddy , kevin . 
kevin , buddy . 
once the dog proves his on-court prowess , kevin's self-esteem rockets . 
they both win places in the school's basketball team , with the animal as their mascot . 
but before they can make it to the finals , snively surfaces to reclaim buddy . 
everything plays out just as one would think : heavy on predictability , light on an actual story . 
the movie follows a calculated chain of events -- kevin's gloom fades , snively gets his comeuppance and buddy contracts rabies and must be executed old yeller-style . 
okay , that last one's a lie , but at least it would have been a quicker send-off than " air bud " 's courtroom climax -- no joke ! 
there's even a faux-cute musical montage where a reluctant buddy gets cleaned-up to " splish splash . " 
paint cans are spilled and newspapers are buried , all in the name of formula . 
the end credits note that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences of this motion picture . " 
that very well may be true , and although to see a dog sink shots is quite a sight , a movie cannot exist on feat alone . 
but " air bud " doesn't seem to be interested in anything else . 
a friend of mine insists he saw buddy a while back on a segment of david letterman's " stupid pet tricks . " 
i can't think of a more appropriate connection -- this movie is a stupid pet trick . 

anastasia contains something that has been lacking from all of the recent disney releases . . . 
 ( especially hercules ) . . . 
emotion . 
all the wacky characters voiced by celebrities and fantastically animated adventure sequences aren't going to hold anyone's interest unless there is an emotional core to hold it all together . 
not since disney's beauty & the beast has there been such a compelling animated film with interesting characters and drama that works . 
the story of the romanov family , the rulers of russia , and their downfall begins the film . 
anastasia , one of the daughters , narrowly escapes the mad monk rasputin ( voiced by christopher lloyd ) with her grandmother ( voiced by angela landsbury ) . 
but anastasia gets lost , and grows up with no memory of her royal origins . 
the grandmother lives in paris , hoping to someday find her beloved anastasia , the only member of the family to survive the russian revolution . 
a young woman named anya ( voiced by meg ryan ) runs across dimitri ( john cusack ) and vlad ( kelsey grammar ) , who are trying to put together a scheme to create an anastasia to fool the grandmother and get the reward money . 
they pick anya to pose as their princes , and of course , it is soon revealed that anya is in fact the lost anastasia . 
dimitri realizes that he can never win her love as he is a commoner , and meanwhile , rasputin is not dead , and plots his revenge against the last romanov . 
the plot is actually quite well structured . 
there are a lot of complexities that may have to be explained to the kids later , but it moves along fast enough that they'll never have time to be bored . 
what this really means is that the adults won't be bored by it either . 
there is a great deal of banter between anya and dimitri that is very funny , and their relationship develops quite naturally as the film progresses . 
there is , of course , lots of comedy for the kids , including rasputin's pet bat , bartok ( hank azaria ) , who is easily the funniest thing in the film . 
however , the comical scenes never distract from the drama , but are worked into the plot almost seamlessly . 
the animation is gorgeous - the characters seem to come to life through the talented animators . 
not since beauty & the beast have animated characters had so much life to them . 
even without the voices , they act . 
the musical number in paris is a show-stopper , with some of the backgrounds rendered in an impressionist painting style . 
as with all recent animated features , there are songs , however , these songs do more than just provide fodder for top-40 singers to get on the radio ( although there are three of them during the end credits ) . 
the songs are all very catchy , and advance the plot , instead of just being showpieces ( except for the paris number , but that's so much fun , it's okay . . . ) . 
i can't reccomend anastasia highly enough . 
it's a wonderful film that ranks right up there with other animated classics . 
kids and adults alike will enjoy it , and it's also nice to have a quality animated feature film from another studio besides disney . 

terrence malick made an excellent 90 minute film adaptation of james jones' world war ii novel . 
unfortunately , he buried it within an overlong and overreaching 3-hour long pseudo-epic . 
this is a shame because the film features an outstanding performance by nick nolte . 
the best scene is when nick nolte's character , lt . col . tall , is forced to deal with the direct refusal by capt . staros ( elias koteas ) to execute an order . 
nolte's reaction and transformation may be the best work of his career . 
had terrence malick concentrated on the great performances of nolte and koteas as well as those by sean penn , woody harrelson , and john cusack , he could have made a truly great film . 
instead , malick saddled the film with plodding pacing , unnecessary flashbacks , and a voice-over narration all designed to telegraph the great philosophical underpinnings of the story . 
the narration was especially annoying as much of it sounded like very bad high school poetry . 
with a lot of editing , the core story could be transformed into a truly classic war film . 
hopefully , the dvd version of this film will feature options to suppress the narration , and perhaps will even provide for an alternate , shorter version of the film . 
i give this film . 

when i first heard about scream in 1996 , i was told that it was a spoof of horror movies . 
from the master of the horror himself , wes craven , it ridiculed the cliches of the genre by overemphasizing them , by making the teenagers do what they know they're not supposed to do when a serial killer is stalking them ( don't run up the stairs when you can easily go out the front door , never say " i'll be right back , " etc . ) . 
when i first heard this description , i figured that it was an easy way out of making a bad movie . 
how hard is it to make an extremely terrible film but claim it is actually a mockery of other bad movies . 
was this wes craven's remedy from making " real " bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn ? 
it just seemed cheap to me . 
then i actually saw the movie and the first twenty minutes , involving drew barrymore and a nail-bitingly intense phone conversation , completely changed my attitude . 
scream is not only a clever parody of your standard horror flick , it's also a pretty scary movie . 
if you've seen a million of these kinds of films , you know exactly what is going to happen . 
this is part of the fun of watching scream . 
the movie reminds avid horror fans how similar and repetitive the genre is and it also reminds them how great a guilty pleasure it can be to watch pointless and predictable violence to innocent , attractive teenagers . 
to those who rarely see these types of movies , scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that could be mistaken as a serious slasher film . 
there's nothing wrong with that misjudgment though . 
i have witnessed viewers from both sides of the audience , the newbies to horror and the fanatics . 
their opinions on the film were so different but both very positive . 
from these varied reviews , i am convinced that scream has not only revived the teen horror movie and the normal teen romance movies but also the hilarious parodies of these and other categories . 
films that both deride and celebrate genres like galaxy quest and the big hit would not have existed , in my opinion , if it was not for the outstanding success of scream . 
the low - budget 1996 gem may , alongside pulp fiction , be the most influential film of the 1990's . 
this influence may exist to the chagrin of some moviegoers who despise movies like teaching mrs . tingle or television programs such as dawson's creek but to others such as myself , we congratulate the movie that has opened new doors for excellent young actors , screenwriters , and directors . 
scream is also an extremely funny movie thanks to its quickly-paced script by kevin williamson . 
within the film are characters who tell other characters , as well as the audience , the basic rules and cliches of a horror movie . 
mainly from the rants of randy ( jamie kennedy ) and stu ( matthew lillard ) , we are reminded not only of the obvious and hilarious rules but also some of the more subtle stereotypes that when thought over are mostly true as well ( the virgin always survives ; have sex and you're dead meat ) . 
not only are we treated these rules on a plate but also the rules are referenced to a number of different films and actors . 
the script feels like an obsessive essay from a college film geek who has nothing better to do but find every little blunder from every little film for his own self-satisfaction . 
in this case , williamson finds these errors for the audience's satisfaction and amusement . 
i hear there is a new movie coming out called scary movie which is a spoof of scream , which is a spoof of scary movies . 
i will certainly see the film but i have the feeling that this parody will be more obviously ridiculing the genre rather than scream's perfect subtlety . 
however my last gut feeling about this stuff , scream , was dead wrong . . . 
so who knows . 

susan granger's review of " the closet " ( miramax films ) 
in this hilarious french farce , a shy , boring accountant ( daniel auteil ) named francois pignon discovers he's going to be fired from his job at a condom factory . 
lonely and distraught , he contemplates suicide . 
but then he runs into belone ( michel aumont ) , an elderly homosexual neighbor , who suggests a " sex discrimination " lawsuit to intimidate management . 
as evidence , belone concocts provocative photographs of pignon locked in a leather-clad embrace with another man and mails them anonymously to pignon's boss . 
when the racy snapshots start circulating around the factory , not only does pignon get his job back but he suddenly finds himself the focus of attention as an openly gay man . 
his lusty supervisor ( michele laroque ) is so intrigued that she wonders if , perhaps , she could change his sexual preferences . 
even his ex-wife ( alexandra vandernoot ) and indifferent teenage son ( stanislas crevillen ) drop their disdain . 
but not everyone is enchanted . 
a mucho macho co-worker felix ( gerard depardieu ) , a self-righteous homophobe , is stunned and repulsed when he's forced by the pr director ( thierry lhermite ) to grovel and court pignon's friendship or risk losing his own job . 
writer/director francis verber artfully milks the farcical comedy as he dissects the hypocrisy of political correctness , veering off-track only occasionally into pedophilia . 
daniel auteuil ( " the widow of saint-pierre " ) is delightful - particularly with a blown-up condom perched on his head , riding on a float in a gay pride parade - and gerard depardieu delivers one of his most restrained , and effective , performances . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the closet " is a frankly sexual , adult 8 . 
it's so clever , in fact , that hollywood is already planning to re-make it in english , like " la cage aux folles . " 

well , here's a distasteful , thoroughly amateurish item that , surprisingly , was actually a box-office hit at the time of its release . 
after just viewing the film for the first time , my primary question is how did anyone with an iq north of 35 enjoy this movie ? 
it is cheap , idiotic , unfunny , and not nearly as raunchy as i had heard it was . 
at least some smut would have livened things up a bit . 
 " porky's , " tells the story ( if you can call it that ) of four clueless high school buddies , pee wee ( dan monahan ) , billy ( mark herrier ) , tommy ( wyatt knight ) , and mickey ( roger wilson ) , whom desperately want to get laid . 
women , for the most part , are a mystery to them ( and in this movie , they are to the audience , as well , since all of them are written and acted as if they are aliens from a different planet ) . 
their plan is sidetracked , however , when they venture out to a smarmy strip bar named porky's , which they are able to get into using fake id's . 
after they pay the manager one-hundred bucks for three hookers , they are played a trick on and find themselves being dumped into the swamp below the building . 
for these four teenage guys , this means war on porky's . 
 " porky's , " ultimately manages to fail on almost every possible level . 
as a teenage sex-romp , it is not wild or amusing enough . 
as a comedy , all of the jokes are predictable and fall flat . 
as a look back at the 1950's , it is something , i suspect , most people from that era would want to bury deep in a grave . 
and as a revenge movie , it is a crushing bore . 
one of the most offensive things about , " porky's , " is how jaw-droppingly inaccurate the film is about teenagers . 
the four main characters are not even attempted to be developed as characters , and we learn very little about them , except that they are horny and would probably feel more comfortable in a preschool . 
that sure is revealing information . 
the female characters fare even worse under the inaudacious screenplay and direction by bob clark . 
the women are all treated as objects or comedy props , rather than real people . 
for example , the two gym teachers , mrs . balbricker ( nancy parsons ) and honeywell ( kim cattrall ) , only have one purpose , and that is to be made fun of . 
mrs . balbricker is a gruff , no-holds-barred , overwight woman who will not stand for any foolishness , and , in one particularly embarrassing scene for all involved , honeywell has sex with a coach and barks like a dog . 
there is no way to tell if parsons or cattrall are servicable actresses ( even though i have the suspicion they are not ) , but one thing is for sure : they are asked to do things in this film that are not at all funny , only humiliating . 
to prove how out-of-touch this so-called comedy is , compare it to other more serious 80's films about teenagers , and it looks even worse in comaprison . 
any of the john hughes pictures , such as 1984's " sixteen candles , " or , 1985's " the breakfast club , " put , " porky's , " at an even greater shame . 
those films actually dealt with serious teen matters , but remained a great deal funnier , thanks to their bright and truthful writing . 
and heck , if , " porky's , " wanted to be a teenage sex movie , i'd take 1982's " fast times at ridgemont high , " or 1982's " the last american virgin , " over this any day of the week . 
director bob clark is not a bad director . 
two years after he made , " porky's , " he directed the nostalgic holiday classic , " a christmas story . " 
i would forgive him for this misfire , in fact , if it wasn't for the fact that he also wrote the screenplay . 
just the thought that someone would actually sit down to write such a piece of garbage , and think that it was actually a film worth releasing unto the unsuspecting world , is actually a whole lot funnier than anything in , " porky's . " 

there should be a requirement that a potential viewer be under a certain film iq in order to see " mission to mars . " 
there are probably quite a few people who are going to enjoy it , and most of them will probably be those who have seen very few films of its kind . 
but there are those who will not , and those will most likely be people who have already seen one or more of the following movies : " 2001 : a space odyssey , " " armageddon , " " apollo 13 , " " the abyss , " " close encounters of the third kind , " " e . t . 
the extra-terrestrial , " " alien , " and " aliens . " 
why ? 
because there is not one original idea in " mission to mars . " 
all of it is cribbed from other films ( and in most cases , better films ) . 
if this is the sort of thing you don't mind , you might like the film . 
of course , there are other reasons not to like " mission to mars , " the main one being a script written by people who seem to assume their audience is filled with people who haven't used their brains in some time , and who don't intend to start during the film's running time . 
 " mission to mars " manages to be both stupid and boring at the same time . 
the plot , cribbed greatly from " 2001 , " concerns a team sent to mars , the first manned trip ever made to the red planet . 
luke graham ( don cheadle ) leads the team , jointly formed of americans and russians . 
the team encounters a mysterious monolith that emits a strange pulse ( this being nothing like the pulse-emitting monolith in " 2001 " -- that one was on the * moon * ) , but when they try to study it , a giant sand tornado comes out of the top and swallows them ( all except luke , who survives long enough to send a garbled message back to the rotating space station , which looks strangely like the rotating space station in " 2001 " ) . 
a rescue mission is planned with husband & wife team woody blake ( tim robbins ) and terri fisher ( connie nielsen ) , obligatory pilot with a troubled past jim mcconnell ( gary sinise ) , and extra crew member phil ohlmyer ( jerry o'connell ) along for the ride . 
after some zero-gravity dancing , they run into problems when one of their engines is blown , forcing them to attempt a desperate landing aboard a supply vessel . 
now stranded on mars with minimal supplies , the team must decide whether or not it can risk entering the monolith or if they should return home . 
after all , that monolith just might contain information about how life originated on earth . 
 " mission to mars " is one of those films that makes a critic wonder where to start when talking about all the things that are wrong with it , so let's start with one of the things that does work : director brian de palma manages to create some eerie tension in a few scenes during the middle of the film . 
that's it . 
everything else fails . 
the failure isn't de palma's fault ; he's working from an atrocious script . 
only during the sequence aboard the ship ( looking an awful lot like the jupiter vessel in " 2001 " ) where the rescue team's air begins running out and they must frantically search for the hole and patch it up does " mission to mars " come to life . 
a scene where they attempt to save a comrade floating away into space also provides some tension , until you realize that the entire danger/more danger/attempted rescue sequence has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the film ; it's just a contrived way to generate thrilling scenes . 
take it out , and the plot isn't affected in any way . 
the sequence also suffers from a few plot holes ( as does the rest of the film ) : why is the ship's computer ( which sounds strangely like hal from , uh , " 2001 " ) able to detect a hole in the main chamber but not one in the engine ? 
why did tim robbins' character have to go outside the ship when the solution easily presented itself from inside ? 
shouldn't the astronauts be better trained to deal with a hull breach ? 
why are the characters such idiots ? 
because the script makes little attempt to properly develop them . 
all the " conflict " is clumsily delivered in excruciatingly obvious exposition in the opening scene ( which rips off orson welles and robert altman by utilizing a long opening tracking shot ) during which the characters repeatedly tell each other about things all of them should already know : " jim , it's too bad you can't go on this mission because you were determined 'psychologically inadequate' because your wife died right before you were to go on the mission together " -- does anyone really talk like this ? 
can't we find out these things in a less grating matter , like maybe in a flashback ? 
the whole film is like that . 
the filmmakers are not content to merely show us something and assume we know what's going on ; they must * tell * us exactly what we're looking at * every * time . 
sample dialogue from the film : ( shot of mars ) astronaut a : " look , there's mars " astronaut b : " you sure that's mars ? " 
astronaut a : " yeah , that's mars all right . " 
astronaut c : " hey , are you guys looking at mars ? " 
that exchange isn't actually in " mission to mars , " but i wouldn't be surprised if it were . 
for all their cribbing from kubrick , spielberg , james cameron , and even ron howard , the makers of this film haven't learned to do something all those directors did very well : show and don't tell . 
de palma used to know how , but seems to have forgotten . 
this is mentally-challenged filmmaking ; they assume the audience won't get what's going on , so they explain everything five times over . 
fourth-graders may appreciate this , but more learned viewers will have their intelligence insulted . 
the principal actors sleepwalk their way through " mission to mars , " never managing to do away with an apparent " i'm just here to get a paycheck " attitude . 
cheadle stumbles over his awkward lines . 
armin mueller-stahl manages to thoroughly embarrass himself in an unbilled cameo . 
robbins puts his game face on and phones in his standard " decent guy " performance . 
and sinise hams it up with " wistful " facial expressions while watching tapes of his dead wife ( played by kim delaney , who only has one scene during which she still manages to deliver some ridiculous dialogue in a heavy-handed monologue about the meaning of life ) , and especially during the stolen-from-no-less-than-three-movies ( a lollipop to whoever names them ) conclusion , which combines endless , obvious explanation and sub-par cgi effects with gagging sentimentality and is sure to alienate any viewers who had been enjoying the show up until then . 
and of course , these aliens from mars who facilitated the evolution of life on earth are entirely different from the aliens in " 2001 " who facilitated the evolution of life on earth ; those aliens were from an * unknown * world . 
it could be said that fans of brainless action films might enjoy " mission to mars , " but such a comment ignores the fact that the film is also incredibly slow-going . 
leisurely pacing might have helped a film with a little more substance to it , but all of the substance of " mission to mars " has been stolen from other films , and those other films dealt with their ideas in a much more thoughtful fashion and generally contained more engaging characters . 
supposedly we're intended to choke up when one character decides not to return home at the end of this one ( totally different from the one-character-decides-not-to-return ending of " armageddon " ) , but i suspect most people will either be laughing or groaning . 
me , i alternated between the two . 
there is only one good thing about the way " mission to mars " finally ends : the fact that the movie is over . 

godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie . 
a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind . 
the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized . 
godzilla lives and dies on special effects alone . 
presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage . 
that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible . 
this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors . 
stargate was a financial success . 
independence day was a runaway hit . 
and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million . 
nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid . 
godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close . 
there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly . 
frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning . 
there's nothing new here ; it's jurassic park meets aliens , with a little independence day thrown in for bad measure . 
maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level . 
godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone . 
the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity . 
 ( how disturbing is it to know that godzilla has been chosen to close the 51st cannes film festival ? ) 
worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting . 
with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse . 
even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking . 
independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action . 
in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking . 
actually , part of the problem is that we're never sure who we're supposed to be rooting for : the green monster with an attitude or the paper-thin humans trying to stop him . 
the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply . 
after sinking a few ships and leaving some footprints on tropical islands , godzilla shows up in the big apple . 
he does some of the usual tourist things : stops by madison square garden , visits the chrysler building , goes on a walk through central park , and takes the subway . 
in the process , he knocks over a few buildings and steps on countless cabs , but he never has trouble with traffic jams . 
on hand to stop him is an elite u . s . army unit , led by a slightly less-arrogant-than-usual military man ( kevin dunn ) and a biologist named nick tatopoulos , who has a theory about godzilla . 
in his opinion , the big guy is actually a lizard grown to enormous proportions as a result of the radiation given off by french atomic bomb tests in the south pacific . 
in nick's words , godzilla is " a mutated aberration ? an incipient creature ? the first of its kind . " 
as luck would have it , nick's old girlfriend , audrey ( maria pitillo ) , is a reporter based at a new york tv station . 
along with her cameraman friend , animal ( hank azaria ) , she decides to follow nick around as he trails godzilla . 
then , just when the military has rejected nick's theory about why godzilla is in new york , a member of the french secret service ( jean reno ) recruits him for a special assignment . 
instead of stomping around tokyo this time , godzilla has chosen new york city . 
unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring . 
the whole tradition of monsters roaming around the city started with king kong , but the big ape was only about 30 feet tall . 
he could climb the empire state building . 
at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over . 
godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor . 
there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel . 
both of the popular personalities have alter egos in the film : " ebert , " the mayor of new york , is played by michael lerner , and " gene " ( lorry goldman ) is his campaign manager . 
ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . " 
the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome . 
and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up . 
godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast . 
this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard . 
that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names . 
then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine . 
maria pitillo ( dear god ) plays the love interest and hank azaria ( great expectations ) is on hand to present what is supposed to be comic relief . 
ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie . 
tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof . 
it may also be word-of-mouth-proof . 
those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say . 
so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind . 
emmerich and devlin are master illusionists , waving their wands and mesmerizing audiences with their smoke and mirrors . 
it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had . 

on the basis of this film alone , i never would have predicted that , in two years , quentin tarantino would become the country's biggest hotshot director . 
reservoir dogs has hints of the tarantino brilliance that emerged in pulp fiction , but is a much less substantive , more conventional crime story than the big pf . 
here's what the two movies do have in common . . . 
--scenes of intelligent , amusing dialogue with no relevance to the plot --a story that jumps back and forth in time rather than going in a logical , chronological sequence --graphic yet necessary violence --an engaging crime story --dialogue liberally spiced with swear words and racial/gender slurs --three of the same actors ( harvey keitel , tim roth and steve buscemi ) --a mexican standoff ending , although this one is considerably less optimistic than pf 
reservoir dogs is an entire hour shorter than pulp fiction because it's only got one story to tell rather than three . 
crime lord joe cabot ( veteran actor lawrence tierney ) has assembled five criminals who have never even met each other to pull a diamond store heist . 
the five are instructed not to reveal their real names or personal details or anything the cops could use if one of them was captured and interrogated . 
instead , they are all given code names off the color chart -- mr . white ( keitel ) , mr . pink ( buscemi ) , mr . orange ( roth ) , mr . blonde ( michael madsen ) , mr . brown ( tarantino ) and mr . peach ( tarantino's chin ) . 
most of the movie's running time is spent with mr . white and pink waiting at a warehouse for the others to arrive . 
mr . orange , meanwhile , is on the floor , dying from a gunshot wound . 
the police had arrived at the scene of the crime way too soon , leading white to believe one of the five was an informant . 
the story's background unfolds through a series of flashbacks , of the crime itself and the meetings between joe and the criminals prior to the crime . 
eventually , blonde arrives with a police officer hostage , and what follows is a truly brutal , uncomfortable torture scene . 
let's just say picasso would be inspired by what blonde does to the cop's ear . 
a lot of the time , reservoir dogs seems like your typical gangster heist-gone-wrong movie , but there are a few sequences that are uniquely tarantino . 
the opening scene in the coffee shop starts the movie off on a high note the rest of it doesn't live up to , as the criminals plus joe have a conversation on , among other things , tipping philosophies and their interpretations of madonna's " like a virgin . " 
another scene involves roth's lengthy manufactured story about running into a group of cops and a police dog in a bus station bathroom while carrying a giant bag of marijuana . 
neither of these have much plot relevance but are given ample time to develop , like the captain koons gold watch speech in pulp fiction , only here these sequences are more enjoyable than the rest of the movie . 
reservoir dogs is good but it's no pulp fiction . 

there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s . 
two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween . 
the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense . 
terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education . 
most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . " 
the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee . 
from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? " 
as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles . 
of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it . 
i forgot to mention the prologue . 
it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students . 
two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid . 
they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed . 
she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver . 
 ( " oh my god , they killed kenny ! 
you bastards ! " ) 
it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on . 
she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) . 
the killing starts before the train even leaves the station . 
since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking . 
at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie . 
speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music . 
then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that . 
for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching . 
only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it . 
and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse . 
i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ? 
terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car . 

some movies have such an impact that they linger in your mind long after the credits have rolled , making you think carefully and recollect on what you have just seen . 
i finished mike figgis' " leaving las vegas " hours ago , and it is still as haunting as when i hit rewind on the vcr . 
alot of people refer to this film as " that flick where nick cage plays that alcoholic dude " . 
 " leaving las vegas " is not so much a movie about alcoholism as it is a story about two people who except each other for what they are : a drunk and a whore . 
ben ( nicolas cage in possibly the best male performance of the past twenty years ) is the drunk . 
his family and friends have long since abandon him , and all he has left is his liquor . 
in a scene early in the film , we see ben staggering into a resteraunt , looking for a " friend " of his to mooch some money off of . 
he finds the guy ( richard lewis ) having dinner with a buddy and two chicks , trying to crack witty jokes that just come out stupid . 
when ben approaches the table , you can clearly sense that everyone immediatly feels uncomfortable . 
after lewis gives ben the money , he coldly says " i think it would be best if you didn't contact me again . " 
now even though through the course of the film , some much more depressing things happen , this is when i felt the most for ben . 
there was such a look of sorrow and dispare on his face , ( not to sound hokey or anything ) it almost brought a tear to my eye . 
it turns out that ben was once a semi-successful hollywood player , and apparently a pretty popular guy . 
now he spends his time getting robbed by hookers and trying desperatly to pick up women , not so much for the sex , but for the company ; for someone to talk to or spend time with . 
once he is fired from his job , ben decides to burn all his belongings , collect all his cash and relocate to las vegas to slowly drink himself to death . 
one night he runs into a prostitute ( a brilliant performance by elizabeth shue - how far she has come since " adventures in babysitting " ) named sera . 
she is involved in an abusive relationship with her pimp , a scumbag who gets-off by cutting her . 
they are both very lonely , self-destructive people . 
they immediatly hit it off , both of them realizing that they need one another . 
and it isn't even a sexual relationship . 
they don't even have sex until , like , the last ten minutes of the film . 
 " leaving las vegas " is not a film about plot . 
with the exception of what i have already revealed ( which all happens in the first thirty minutes or so , by the way ) , there isn't too much of a story to it . 
it is more a film about people and how they react to one another . 
from what i can see , this is basically a perfect film . 
the direction is great ( with mike figgis doing a brilliant mix between the glamor of las vegas and the moody , smokey atmosphere of a film noir ) and it contains two of the best performances to come out of the 90s , or any other decade for that matter . 
but don't go rushing out to see this movie without knowing what you're getting yourself into . 
first off , if you are easily offended by frank sexual dialouge , stay away from " leaving las vegas " . 
it is filled with lengthy discussions of orgasms , rape and various forms of perverted activities involving burbon ( that's right ) . 
secondly , if you are not in the mood to see a very depressing film , don't see it . 
however , if you are cool with those two things , you are in for one of the most memorable experiences you will ever have . 

plot : jet li is a chinese cop asked to help some french policemen nab a bad guy . 
but one thing leads to another , and the next thing you know , li's being chased by the same french cops with whom he was supposed to be working . 
a lot of ass-kicking , face-whippings , gun fights and . . . okay , a little more ass-kicking ensues . 
critique : very cool ! 
now here's a movie that gives you exactly what you're looking for , if what you're looking for is kickass action , a palpable good cop/bad cop story line , some hardcore stunts and jet li slam-dunking everyone in sight ! 
the film also moves fast ( a mere 95 minutes ) , develops a certain " cute " chemistry between fonda and li , has nice surroundings ( paris , baby ! ) and gives us one of the best bad guys that i've seen all year . 
tcheky karyo is the devil incarnate in this film . 
he is pure evil . 
they should have called this movie bad lieutenant 2 as keitel has nothing on this man . 
what a great , great monster ! 
my favorite line of tcheky's was when li was explaining the whole " kiss of the dragon " thing to him and he cut him off by saying " kiss my ass ! " 
pure action movie poetry . 
anyway , other than him , jet li also handled his " acting " pretty well in this film , with very little real dialogue to say , but enough to make us believe his character . 
actually , just looking into the man's eyes generally tells you a lot . 
fonda was also pretty good , despite playing one of the most trashy and abused women that i have seen in quite some time , but i still felt kinda bad for her , so i guess she did her job okay . 
but in the end , nobody goes to see this kind of movie for oscar performances . 
we go to see jet li movies because we want to see jet li kicking a lot of ass from side to side , and this film delivers gangbusters on that front . 
and yes . . . they have no wire-fu in this movie . . . i 
say again . . . no 
wire-work , no bullshit stunts with li floating around in mid-air for over a minute . 
it's all straight action , fist to fist , boot to face and all around cool stunts . 
if that's what you're looking for , i don't see how you will be disappointed with this film . 
yes , it's not very original in plot ( just take luc besson's own la femme nikita and mix in plenty of his own the professional et voila ! ) , does have an annoying hip-hoppy soundtrack that just got on my nerves after a while ( i also would have gotten rid of the whole acupuncture thang . . . ) and will have anyone not willing to restrain their disbelief , rolling their eyes all over the place . 
but was i entertained ? 
thoroughly . 
does the film feature more gunplay , martial arts and over-the-top kills that most recent action flicks ? 
yes , again . 
does this sound interesting to you ? 
well , the answer to that question is entirely up to you . 
one thing that i would definitely recommend is , as jet li pointed out himself on his website , that you leave the kids at home for this one . 
in fact , you might even wanna leave yourself if you can't handle the more violent of sequences . 
all in all , a rippin' , roarin' fun time ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
black mask ( 5/10 ) - blade ( 7/10 ) - la femme nikita ( 8/10 ) - lethal weapon 4 ( 7/10 ) - the matrix ( 8/10 ) - the professional ( 9/10 ) - romeo must die ( 3/10 ) - rush hour ( 7/10 ) - shanghai noon ( 6/10 ) 

the happy bastard's quick movie review 
the concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid , really . 
shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control . 
sadly , that is the case with kingpin , a film directed by the farrelly brothers , the duo that brought us there's something about mary and dumb and dumber . 
since the duo directed and didn't write the script , i can assume that's part of the problem . 
the story seems good enough : a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of roy munson ( woody harrelson ) is sitting on top of the world . 
his popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground . 
then , however , he runs into ed mccracken ( bill murray ) , a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for , well , anything . 
these two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting , and , before roy sees it coming , ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine . 
forward seventeen years later , where roy has become quite the loser , complete with mechanical hand , torn-up car , and , of course , the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while . 
however , he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley , where he runs into an amish kid named ishmael ( randy quaid ) , who has quite the bowling arm . 
with the kid's help , he figures he can be known again , particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in reno , nevada . 
of course , the amish kid needs some coaxing , particularly when you consider , well , he's amish . 
this leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film , such as roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow . 
finally , the duo get on the road and , along the way , pick up an additional helper- a beautiful hustler ( played by the gorgeous vanessa angel ) . 
the main problem i had with kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny . 
in fact , it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it , such as the aformentioned above and roy's explanation of not having children ( something involving a cheese grater ? ) . 
but that's just it- scenes . 
there's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie , like the abuse angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend . 
i mean , was this really necessary ? 
couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier ? 
i mean , this is a comedy , why throw ethics in ? 
particularly in a farrelly brothers vehicle , where hair gel can be easily mistaken ? 
that really ruined it , however , and that's too bad . 
the acting is top notch , especially from angel and murray , and the really funny scenes are worth noting . 
still , if you're going to think dumb , think dumb all the way through , ok ? 
at least the farrelly brothers got back on track with mary or i'd still be a little bit irked . 

now that " boogie nights " has made disco respectable again ( well , fashionable at least ) , we shouldn't be surprised to see more films glorifying that dubious era . 
the latest art house interpretation is whit stillman's " the last days of disco . " 
stillman , who made " metropolitan " and " barcelona " using some of the same actors , uses disco's final hours to highlight what is another conversation-heavy movie that benefits from typically astute writing from the director . 
the young , upwardly-mobile professional ( don't call them yuppies ! ) 
men and women of " the last days of disco " frequent a prestigious new york city nightclub pulsating to the bass-pounding rhythms of earth wind and fire , amy grant , and andrea true connection . 
here they talk and talk and talk , intellectualizing about such things as dating , success , and being liked , accepted , and admired . 
if talk is cheap , " the last days of disco " must surely have been an extremely inexpensive movie to shoot . 
what makes the film so entertaining is that this preppie , harvard-educated jet set actually have something to say and say it with wit , perception , and style ( including , at one point , a riotously inventive deconstruction of " the lady and the tramp " ) . 
na ? ve alice ( chlo ? sevigny ) and sophisticated charlotte ( kate beckinsale ) are recent college graduates who work as assistant editors for a new york publishing house . 
charlotte is confident and outspoken--perhaps a little too outspoken ; alice is shy and introverted , " like a kindergarten teacher . " 
the two friends often doll themselves up and head out to the nameless nightspot , looking good and looking for excitement ( and that ms . beckinsale sure looks good on a dancefloor ! ) . 
here they meet , or re-meet , a variety of eligible men , many of whom they knew in college . 
des ( played by stillman favorite christopher eigeman ) is one of the club's managers whose job is on the line for sneaking his ad agency buddies in the back . 
des has reached a crisis point in his life : he just found out--last wednesday , in fact--that he's gay . 
whether it's true or not , it makes for a convenient excuse to dump his latest girlfriend ( jennifer beals in a small but soul-baring turn ) . 
charlotte observes cattily that the only gay thing about des is his mouth . 
jimmy ( mackenzie astin ) is the advertising exec who , by the end of the picture , winds up heading for a new job opportunity in spain ( visions of " barcelona " ? ) . 
josh ( matt keeslar ) is an assistant district attorney who dreams of being able to say , just once , " book this clown ! " 
and robert sean leonard plays another one of alice's revolving suitors ; the two have an amusing exchange about the true definition of virginity . 
any film that can make robert sean leonard palatable is worthy of respect in my book . 
in fact , the entire ensemble is appealing in that well-spoken stillman way . 
while the eschewing of " ferocious pairing " is a favored topic of conversation in the film , the protagonists tend to slip in and out of love , lust , and trouble with each other in an emotional merry-go-round that cleverly develops its characters through the " preferred " dynamics of social group interaction . 
more mature than stillman's previous two films , " the last days of disco " is as consistently droll as it is stimulating . 
it's a movie you should definitely get on down to . 

produced by robert lantos & stephen j . roth 
directed by douglas williams 
mpaa : not rated ( though from language , violence , medical-gross-outs , and sexual content , i'd put it at pg ) 
though made in canada , " overdrawn at the memory bank " traces its roots to the bbc school of film production . 
using , for the most part , cheap computer and video special effects , chyron text , wildlife documentary footage , and sets that are sometimes obviously faked up , it nonetheless manages to tell a good enough science fiction story that by the time you're twenty minutes into it , you should be hooked . 
raul julia plays aram fingal , a drone data processing worker for novicorp whose active imagination and predilection for hacking gets him into trouble with authority . 
caught watching " casablanca " on his desk monitor , fingal is sentenced to " doppling " rehabilitation--he is to spend forty-eight hours in the body of a baboon . 
 ( how exactly this is supposed to rehabilitate him is anybody's guess . ) 
as it happens , thanks to a visiting schoolboy's prank , his body is temporarily misplaced , and his mind has to be shunted into the central computer to keep him alive until they can find it . 
as time ticks away before his memory cube self-destructs , the frantic search for his body is on . . . while 
fingal first creates a virtual reality fantasy world , then finds there's no better way to hack the system than from the inside . 
during the chaos , computer technician apollonia james ( linda griffiths ) maintains contact with fingal through a datalink , manifesting several different times to offer advice or warnings . 
over the course of their interactions , interest on both their parts grows into a budding romance . 
given that " casablanca " is fingal's favorite film , and the basis for his fantasy world , a great deal of the movie is homage to " casablanca " . 
in fact , the humphrey bogart and peter lorre characters make appearances ( played by julia in a dual role and louis negin , respectively ) in a bar called " the place " . 
julia's portrayal of bogart is passable , and avoids becoming the " schweethaat " -spouting parody seen in cartoons . 
negin's peter lorre is quite credible , and easily the best peter lorre i've ever seen who wasn't the real thing . 
the two of them , as characters created by fingal's imagination , serve as aspects of his personality , driving him on in his quest to hack the computer system . 
those aren't the only casablanca characters to put in appearances . 
the sydney greenstreet character also happens to be around . . . as " the fat man " , the alternate aspect of the film's main villain , the novicorp chairman ( donald c . moore ) . 
while fingal's body is lost , the fat man tries to stop him from hacking the system . . . with 
less than salutory results . 
it's interesting to note the futuristic slang words that are thrown about left and right during the film , in the best golden-age science fiction tradition . 
words like " dopple " , " psychist " , " computech " , " cinema " , and " reconst " are apparently in common use . 
and while people of today may well laugh at fourteen years past's idea of futuristic data processing clerks , some aspects of this film are surprisingly perfectly in keeping with the way we think of " virtual reality " today . 
as cyberpunk films go , this may not be a staple of the genre , but it's definitely recommended viewing . 
the special effects are very primitive , placing this production in the realm of low-to-medium-budget television . 
the music is completely electronic-synthesized , which fits the low budget but isn't really out of keeping with the genre . 
however , the writing quite makes up for it . 
there are some very funny moments , and quite a few little in-jokes that one needs to have seen " casablanca " to appreciate properly . 
all in all , i give " overdrawn at the memory bank " a . 

first , i am not a big fan of the x-files tv series . 
i have nothing against it particularly , i just don't happen to watch it . 
having said that , i can now say that i liked the x-files pretty well . 
for us non-fans , there's nothing big going for it , but there are a lot of little things . 
the movie opens on an ice cave in north texas in 35 , 000 b . c . 
two proto-humans enter the cave and find a space alien cocooned inside . 
the alien breaks free and kills one man in a struggle while the other is seemingly captured by the bloody ooze from the alien . 
the movie jumps to the same cave today where a boy ( lucas black , from sling blade ) is captured by the same black ooze . 
we then cut to fbi agents scully and mulder ( gillian anderson and david duchovny ) , who have been pulled off of their previous assignment ( investigations into the paranormal ) and put onto the bomb squad detail . 
a caller has threatened a federal building in dallas , texas . 
on a hunch , mulder checks out the building across the street , and , wouldn't you know it , he turns out to be right . 
the fbi finds the bomb in time to evacuate but not in time to defuse . 
five people die in the blast , and when mulder learns who the victims were , a light bulb goes on over his head . 
the two agents team up to investigate , against fbi orders , the links mulder has made . 
their search leads them back to the north texas cave , all across the country , and even to antarctica as they get closer and closer to " the truth . " 
the plot , and " the truth , " are uninspired . 
i got the feeling that what i learned was supposed to shock and amaze me . 
it didn't . 
the possible existence of aliens on earth has been explored so many times before in movies that one could hardly count them . 
but the point of the x-files is not what the truth is , but the extent to which it has been hidden . 
it's a slightly more interesting angle , but it still raises expectations about that " truth " too high . 
if this were the whole film , i would say the movie was mediocre , perhaps even boring . 
but there are other qualities that make me like this movie well enough to recommend it . 
the pacing of the film was brisk enough to hold my interest . 
before the audience can get tired of one location , the agents follow a hot tip to another location , and so on and so forth . 
the locations are not all computer-generated sets , either . 
there are some artificial settings , but the desert night of nevada , the edge of suburbia in texas , and the endless fields of snow in antarctica ( actually somewhere in north america . ) 
make this fantastic film feel more real . 
ward russell's cinematography is very good . 
the overall look is dark and ominous , appropriate to the intended tone of the film's plot . 
russell is able to make something as innocuous as a cornfield look foreboding . 
when the movie is set in darkness , the picture quality is still rich and detailed . 
finally , and specifically , there is an incredible shot at night in which the camera crosses the tracks in front of a fast oncoming train . 
i don't know if the shot is faked in any way , but it looks dangerous , and it looks great . 
the movie's soundtrack is also used to convey the dark tone of the film . ( skip 
to the next paragraph if you have yet to see the movie - there is a spoiler in the following sentences . ) during the opening prehistoric sequence , a howling wind dogs the soundtrack , never giving the characters or the audience an escape from the lonely terrible sound . 
in one of the movie's most effective sequences , metallic doors suddenly slam open to release a cloud of buzzing bees . 
the visuals of the scene are good , but what makes it so surprising and frightening is the sound . 
there was no question as to who the movie's stars would be . 
even so , duchovny and anderson are an interesting pair of actors and a good combination . 
both are easy on the eyes and together , they have some good timing , banter , and energy . 
there is a hint of chemistry between them , but it never gets in the way of their professional relationship . 
they are like a couple of kids out exploring the empty lot at the end of the street . 
there might be some romantic interest , but for now they're more interested in their environs than they are in each other . 
no single element really makes this movie outstanding - not even the sense of paranoia that makes the tv show so popular . 
but enough things were done right that the x-files is one of the more interesting summer adventures to come along . 

back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman . 
that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . . 
last action hero . 
but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . " 
if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe . 
you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film . 
at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in . 
to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not . 
after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting . 
they encounter another ship . 
they board it . 
alien spiders attack them . 
they return to their ship . 
the other one explodes . 
they land on a deserted planet . 
and so on . 
an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on . 
the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that . 
for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy . 
in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . . 
digital effects . 
but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet . 
entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game . 
apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ? 
but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious . 
you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy . 
new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount . 
i don't think so . 
in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 

it's not a bad thing to update old stories . 
it's done all the time in the oral tradition . 
the difficulty with this film is not that the tale has changed , it's that it's dry . 
the new cinderella , danielle ( drew barrymore ) is not sitting around waiting for her prince to come . 
she's a woman of the late twentieth century albeit situated in sixteenth century france . 
when her father dies , she stays on in his house even though she is mistreated by her wicked stepmother rodmilla ( anjelica huston ) . 
she works by day , but reads sir thomas more by firelight at night . 
although the story is updated , you know the plot . 
danielle meets prince henry ( dougray scott ) , goes to a ball disguised , is later found out and they live happily ever after . 
the movie is often like watching a filmed play . 
theater in real life is engrossing . 
theater on the screen is usually lifeless . 
there doesn't seem to be much going on . 
the camera can be a star of films . 
here it's a co-conspirator . 
danielle's convictions are compromised . 
a socialist and a feminist , she pretends to be royalty to get her man . 
a kind woman , her last act in the movie is one of revenge . 
the most enjoyable characters are the most cartoonish . 
the fairy godmother stand-in , leonardo da vinci ( patrick godfrey ) is fun to watch as the eccentric old man who advises danielle . 
huston is enjoyable in her over-the-top wickedness . 
in all fairness , my companion loved the film . 
maybe it's one of those " chick flicks " that men don't like . 
it is certainly a date film . 
nearly the entire audience was couples . 
oh well , maybe it's good for something . 

so many students strive to get into schools such as harvard of princeton , but they just don't get the good grades . 
so many students would do anything to reach their goal of getting into this schools . 
legend has it that if your roommate commits suicide , the remaining roommates will get an automatic 4 . 0 . 
chris ( michael vartan ) and tim ( matthew lillard ) are two guys who really want the 4 . 0 to get into harvard . 
how far will they go to get their 4 . 0 ? 
chris and tim are also roommates with rand , played by randall batinkoff . 
the two scheme to murder rand , make it look like a suicide , so they can supposedly get their 4 . 0 . 
they have heard this rumor many places , and they are willing to take the chance to find out . 
rand is a very , very mean person . 
he treats his girlfriend natalie , played by tamara craig thomas , like she doesn't matter at all . 
she is very afraid of him , and she especially afraid now that she must tell him she is pregnant . 
she does tell him , and he becomes enraged . 
that night would be the last night of rand's life . 
tim and chris give rand a bottle of rat poison , making him think that it is beer . 
rand drinks down the poison , and then dies . 
now , tim pushes him off of a mountain with a suicide note near the site to make it look like he killed himself . 
it does not take long until the suicide note is found , but the body isn't found . 
the police question chris and tim about rand to try and find any information . 
feeling extreme guilt , chris is having a very hard time , especially with his girlfriend , emma , played by keri russell . 
she wants to know more , but he will not even speak with her . 
will he give in ? 
will tim turn chris in ? 
will chris turn tim in ? 
will they turn themselves in ? 
all of these questions were running through my mind while watching this slick suspense film . 
the events in the curve are very surprising , original , and fun . 
the plot sounds much like dead man on campus , but that is not the deal with this film . 
this film is a very serious one , with not many laughs . 
there are many twists and turns that make this film different from most films . 
the ending in particular is completely unpredictable and satisfying . 
it is a terrific , suspenseful ending that i could never predict would happen . 
hands down to dan rosen who wrote this wild ride . 
the sound really stood out in the film . 
it is quite eerie and it really adds to the feel of the film . 
the way the movie is filmed is also great . 
all of the technical aspects , as well as the acting and directing aspects are very well done . 
the performances in the curve are very good . 
matthew lillard gets to play another creepy role , just like in 1996's scream . 
 ( a+ ) he is very strange in this film as well . 
i like him in this sort of role , rather than the roles he has been playing in comedies such as senseless and she's all that . 
michael vartan is fantastic as chris , who has extremely mixed emotions about the entire murder and the 4 . 0 . 
michael vartan was also superb in never been kissed , where he co-starred with drew barrymore as a teacher who fell in love with his student . 
keri russell also gives a great performance . 
she should be a good actress in the horror department of the film . 
tamara craig thomas is also realistic , especially coping with the death of her boyfriend . 
some very strong supporting performances came from smaller roles , such as bo dietl and anthony griffith who play two detectives investigating the case . 
the bottom line- i might just have to curve that a- into an a . 
 * note- the curve premiered at the sundance film festival in early 1998 . 
it was decided the film would not be released widely . 
it is now available at blockbuster video only , and for rent only . 
see you at the video store ! 

what a great film . 
what a stunning , touching , heart-wrenching , heart-warming , life-affirming , miraculous film . 
>from its opening moments , _life is beautiful_ walks that fine line between serious tragedy and uplifting comedy . 
a car with no brakes speeds through the town , and guido ( roberto benigni ) motions people to move out of the way . 
they mistake him to be the fascist president , traveling to their town that day . 
heil ! 
heil ! 
huh ? 
shortly thereafter , the president drives through , and people stare , with blank faces . 
this is standard , but somehow fresh and postmodern stuff : the clown who is also a jew , triumphs over the anti-semitic society in which he = lives . 
granted , _the great dictator_ comes to mind--charlie chaplin+s almost masterpiece . 
i think lib ( which benigni wrote and directed ) trumps gd in one essential point : chaplin+s jewish barber gives a great speech at the climax , but to do so , he had to break completely from character . 
benigni is given a similar situation : he is mistaken as a fascist dignitary , and must explain to a classroom filled with schoolchildren = on how scientists have concluded that aryans are the superior race . 
benigni+s guido stays in character , and delivers the speech , keeping = the subject matter intact while showing the absurdity of its concept . 
it = is one of the great satirical scenes in modern cinema . 
there are many other scenes , especially in the first half , which are bright and loopy and funny and silly . 
slapstick reigns , and although the film is subtitled , there was no doubt that a universal language was being conveyed . 
and although it+s focus is on the courtship of guido = to dora ( played by nicoletta braschi , benigni+s real life wife ) , a silent undercurrent creeps in . 
this is clearly a racist society , evidenced by the aforementioned scene and others , and it will soon affect him and = his family . 
the second half of the film takes place five years later , in an unnamed concentration camp , where guido , dora ( by her insistence ) , and their five-year old son , giosu=e9 ( giorgio cantarini ) , are deported . 
guido , seeing the horrors , is desperate to protect his wife and child . 
for = his wife , who is separated from him , he must find ways to communicate to = her that he is all right . 
for his son , ( and this is the most controversial part of the film ) he convinces the youngster that this is all one big elaborate game : it+s rules include hiding , being very quiet , and learning to not ask for seconds . 
which raises the big questions : how do we deal with pain ? 
with persecution ? 
with injustice on the worst level ? 
it+s said that tragedies bring out the best in people , finding strengths they did not realize they had . 
other times they deteriorate , become overwhelmed = with little strength or incentive to swim . 
sometimes even , people giggle in these moments , as if there were a vacant emotion behind them , yearning for some brightness to soothe their wounds . 
benigni+s guido realizes this . 
he is the clown , but he is not a fool . 
he sees the slurs and the vandalism , and while feeling the weight of = the verbal attacks , he still has the audacity to see if everyone around = him , perhaps even the antagonists , laugh . 
his liberty is stripped , but not his dignity , and certainly not the dignities of those around him . 
it+s obvious from the onset that here is someone who is very much against fascism and the preposterousness of an aryan nation , but does so with a grinning , joyful demeanor . 
perhaps that is a form of denial . 
perhaps his alternate reality is all that he could muster ( not unlike the very different _brazil_ ) . 
or . . . 
perhaps this is an example of great fortitude , with no weapons but = wit . 
whatever his purposes is subject to debate , but also a sure sign that this is one of the great three-dimensional characters , stranded amidst = a terrifyingly risky concept . 
surprisingly , it works . 
it is an important footnote that this film was not intended to be an accurate reflection of the holocaust . 
it+s not that the atrocities are trivialized , far from it . 
they don+t have to be broadcast and explicitly shown to muster the same horror--less is more . 
i believe = that benigni was cautious to preserve the tone , and i like the theory that = it is guido+s alternate reality that we+re seeing . 
however , any criticism that this is rewriting history , that the holocaust wasn+t as bad as it seems , is simply off-target . 
benigni+s film has won audience awards at cannes , at toronto , and is a definite shoo-in for best foreign language film ( hopefully for best picture as well ) . 
he has been made an honorary jew by a jerusalem film society . 
it swept the italian academy awards . 
controversy notwithstanding , it is one of the great films this year , and as of this writing , the one to beat for best film . 
masterful . 
miraculous . 
a must-see . 

there's a thin line between satire and controversy , and mike nichols ( the birdcage , wolf ) has directed a sharp and very honest look at a us presidential election . 
based on the book written by " anonymous " ( actually former " newsweek " writer joe klein ) , john travolta plays governor jack stanton . 
but he doesn't actually play stanton . 
he plays bill clinton ; just the same as emma thompson no doubt plays the first lady and billy bob thorton is the campaign manipulator james carville ( although the credits will of course say otherwise ) . 
the film is taken from the perspective of henry burton ( adrian lester ) , a morally correct and somewhat hesitant new advisor to stanton . 
he searches for justice and dignity in the ugliest possible situations , and whether it be keeping the history of his boss' pants under wraps or contemplating digging up dirt on another politician , he approaches his work with a keen desire to skillfully serve his country and his fellow workers . 
richard jemmons ( billy bob thorton ) and daisy green ( maura tierney ) team up with henry as the would-be president's advisors , and hire lesbian veteran libby holden ( kathy bates ) as the campaign's eccentric " tougher than dirt " incriminator . 
together they face all sorts of sexual allegations , the irritatingly discourteous media and other witty politicians in the election race . 
in its satire and controversy , primary colors is a similar film to wag the dog : they both are not afraid to wipe their noses in the nitty-gritty and take a bold look at something that will never has honesty as a virtue . 
but whereas wag showed us how much affect a few people can have on the media , primary colors is much more concerned with fleshing out it's characters , letting us understand what they want and why , and making us truly appreciate the humanity and rectitude that they graciously represent . 
seeing john travolta play bill clinton so confidently and justly is enough to make the film more than worth a look . 
and the rest of the cast also make superb performances - adrian lester sharply portrays the intellect of henry whilst kathy bates is perfect as the robust and energetic libby holden . 
at occasions , you can't help but feel that these terrific characters are going to waste . 
there are long slabs of time where john travolta ( unquestionably the most interesting to watch ) is missed from the screen ; and since it is awkwardly structured as henry's story we are often forced to watch scenes that perhaps are not so necessary to the central plot - or even the point of the film . 
having said that , make no mistake - primary colors is always enjoyable to watch . 
but frequently we have to ask ourselves - exactly what are we watching ? 
most of the first half of its duration is a lightheaded look at melodramatic confrontations that seem so genuine we cannot help but laugh , but the way primary colors chooses to finish tackles aspects that are very contrary , and almost unsuitable , to the rest of the film . 
but as i mentioned before , there is a thin line between satire and controversy - and for the most part , primary colors delivers an entertaining indulgence of political matters combined with a far-from-overpowering look at winning the public's opinion . 
although at occasions the film may jump around a little too freely , focus is never lost on how important and vulnerable the subject matter really is . 
thankfully , it is clear to make the distinction on what is entertaining movie cosmetics and what is a provocative documentation of something so really it's scary . 

call " hush " " stop or my mom will kill . " 
or " mommy fearest . " 
or " the hand that robs the cradle . " 
call it whatever you want , but certainly don't see it unless you're in desperate need of a bad movie-induced chuckle -- " hush " scores so many unintentional guffaws that it almost qualifies as a guilty pleasure . 
chalk its losses up to frequent stupidity lapses and apparent post-production tinkering ( it was supposed to open about a year ago ) , the latter of which appears to have given " hush " a send-off that's downright infuriating . 
it's too bad that " hush " is so laughable , because the on-screen talent -- including the pairing of gwyneth paltrow and jessica lange -- is nothing to laugh at . 
paltrow and johnathon schaech play helen and jackson , a photogenic new york couple on their way to spend christmas vacation at his wealthy , well-to-do family's horse farm/estate kilronan . 
jackson's mother martha ( lange ) runs kilronan all by herself , and her genteel southern hospitality makes helen feel welcome immediately -- even if her first meeting with martha takes place while helen is in the altogether , caught red-handed after a bedroom romp with her husband-to-be . 
but it seems that martha's friendly smile masks a much more threatening demeanor ; she's what you'd call someone who loves too much . 
martha eagerly , deviously wants a grandchild , and then helen will be expendable , as far as she's concerned . 
if there's one reason to catch " hush , " it's lange . 
she treats the pedestrian screenplay better than it deserves to be treated , injecting martha ( poorly written though she may be ) with a little empathy to level out the psycho-playing field . 
when she delves into martha's dark side , predictable cliches -- chain-smoking , staring in mirrors , praying in a confessional to a priest who isn't there , poking a hole in helen's diaphragm so she'll become pregnant ( and she does ) -- abound , but it's moderately entertaining junk because lange is such an interesting actress to watch . 
veteran performer nina foch is smart and tart as jackson's wheelchair-bound paternal grandmother . 
the rest of the cast looks ill and uncomfortable , especially paltrow . 
but can you really blame them ? 
the character relationships in " hush " hold a certain amount of promise , at least until their psychological impact is blown out of the water by sheer stupidity . 
idiotic situations ( martha yells at a nearby horse so it will bolt up and knock helen over ) compliment idiotic dialogue ( " why did you yell ? " 
helen yells back at martha ) , and the film takes the form of one of the shoddier fill in the blank-from-hell flicks ever made . 
you can see through a great deal of martha's actions and lies from their conception ; why do people who have known this woman for years longer than we have never figure things out ? 
does nobody communicate or read the newspaper in this town ? 
if any of her potential victims thought , acted or behaved like normal people , " hush " would be a really short movie . 
and then there's the climax and ending , which abruptly come when helen starts having contractions after eating some pound cake spiked with a labor-inducing drug normally used on horses . 
after a really weird chase scene , martha calmly knits in a rocking chair while forcing helen to give birth in a bed all by herself . 
i won't spoil what happens next except to say that it's contradictory , illogical and ( probably , since i'm no doctor ) medically impossible . 
the final scene offers no closure , no resolution , no confrontation whatsoever . 
it's just there , dangling amidst silent displeasure . 
no one should like this ending , regardless of their feelings on the preceding material . 
perhaps " hush " 's title is a plea to silence its audience's likely bitter word of mouth while exiting the theater . 

 ( dimension films , " scream 2 " 's distributor , has asked press to say extremely little -- if anything -- about the film's twisty plot . 
that's no easy task considering the wit that deserves to be mentioned here , but i will do my best to be vague ( now , there's a first ) . ) 
 " the first one was [good] , but all the rest sucked , " said a cinematically-savvy teen in last winter's wes craven thriller " scream , " her statement referring to the films of the " nightmare on elm street " series but really putting down franchise overkill in general . 
the comment certainly carries clout : for every truly great sequel , there appears to be a couple of duds , making one wonder if writers are better off sticking solely with fresh ideas . 
but like it or not , along comes " scream 2 . " and believe it or not , it's a doozy -- a slick , sinister , madly subversive good time at the movies , as intent on sending up hollywood's sequel syndrome as much as its prequel poked fun at slasher conventions . 
 " scream 2 " is definitely that rare movie thing -- a follow-up that can stand along side its original with pride . 
it's been two years since a pair of overzealous horror movie fans clad in edvard munch-esque get-ups carved their way through the young populace of woodsboro , california . 
those surviving the ordeal have gotten on with their lives . 
plucky heroine sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) is a drama student at the midwestern windsor college ; her pop culture-whiz pal randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) has tagged along . 
trash tabloid reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a best-seller based on their ordeal , the basis of which has been turned into a ( very bad ) movie called " stab . " 
and dewey riley ( david arquette ) , still suffering from wounds inflicted during " scream , " has left his job as a police officer for a while . 
life is tranquil . . . 
at least for a while . 
several sudden murders bring sidney , randy , gale and dewey together again , but with suspicious eyes cast on each other and most of those in their surroundings -- if these four people learned anything from the past , it's to trust no one . 
thus , the possible victim/potential killer list includes said quartet , as well as : derek ( jerry o'connell ) , sidney's new beau ; cici ( sara michelle gellar ) , a chatty sorority gal ; joel ( duane martin ) , gale's cameraman who's not too thrilled with her blood-soaked past ; hallie ( elise neal ) , sidney's sassy roommate ; debbie ( laurie metcalf ) , a local reporter who gives gale some not-too-friendly competition ; and mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , randy's good friend and fellow film student . 
cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney wrongly accused of her mother's murder in scream , also shows up on campus -- but why ? 
like the first scream , craven and screenwriter kevin williamson inaugurate things with a bang . 
this time , it's an extended sequence that finds an african-american couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a sneak preview of " stab , " making sly references about everything from sandra bullock to the lunchmeat non-roles of blacks in slasher cinema . 
before tragedy ensues at the screening , the movie-within-a-movie setup allows for plenty of jokey moments , including a scene from " stab " which turns scream's now-famous drew barrymore prologue on its ear . 
 ( " b---- , hang up the phone and star-69 his a-- ! " 
pinkett yells at the screen . ) 
it's funny , creepy stuff ( i don't think i'll ever feel safe in a movie theater again ) that effectively foreshadows the ratio of smart scares and spoofy laughs down the road . 
another flawless example of this is a riotous cell phone-assault of the killer on randy , dewey and gale in broad daylight ; it builds comedically and ends with genuine terror because of the emotional investment made on these delicious characters . 
there are other superb set pieces , but explaining them risks ruining their effect . 
there are more players this time around as to provide both a higher number suspects and a staggering body count . 
it's something of a trade-in -- the new characters are too large in number to be as fully-developed as the original " scream " gang , but this movie packs in knowing performances ( especially by kennedy and cox ) and more death for your dollar . 
it can be argued that , while the original might outclass it by a tad , scream 2 is both scarier and funnier . 
it certainly doesn't skimp with shocks -- a major one being the killing of one cast member very near and dear to my heart ( i actually questioned craven and williamson's judgment here , considering how much this person has added to these films ) . 
sometimes you wish that more could have been done with stab -- the two scenes we're shown are dead-on -- but for film fans , there are plenty of subtle nods to movies like " the usual suspects , " " aliens " and " the empire strikes back . " 
still , " scream 2 " does so many things right , it's petty to quibble . 
its penchant for parody is irresistible , discussions of the merits of film sequels and all . 
the attractive , solid cast is a definite bonus . 
and the denouement ( while not as shocking as " scream " 's ) is priceless ; the film's final revelation incorporates bits of a particular horror film prominently referred to in " scream " with one of the best bad guy motives ever put on paper . 
all this and a " scream 3 " is in the works . 
knowing the series' tendency for self-reference , perhaps one of its characters will again discuss the concept of sequel justice . 
mentioning " scream 2 " 'll help them in their argument . 

your first clue that something isn't gonna be quite right with the movie you're about to see : it's heavily christmas-themed and its release date is , oh , say , at the end of february . 
your second clue that something isn't gonna be quite right with the movie you're about to see : charlize theron , one of the movie's dubious stars , makes an appearance on the daily show in which , when asked if her new movie's any good , she replies with the equivalent of a verbal sigh . . . 
assuring us that , yeah , it sure is a movie , all right ! 
and there's some scenes like those you'd expect to find in a movie , and there's some action . . . 
and there's other . . . 
stuff . . . 
too . 
how to immediately grab my attention : open your movie with five dead guys in santa claus suits . 
then show a caption reading " six days earlier . . . " 
ya know , i was honestly interested to find out what killed all those poor santas . . . 
how to immediately lose my attention : follow your opening scene with a terminally dull nice-guys-who-don't-deserve-to-be-in-prison scene . 
write a line for the one of prisoners like " i just want to go home and eat christmas dinner and watch some ball with my dad . " 
then , have ben affleck actually say that line , on film , and forget to leave it on the cutting room floor . 
for good measure , throw in a poorly motivated prison riot and have affleck's best buddy stabbed . . . 
aw . . . 
and just two days before his release , too . 
already the cliches are piled on thick , and when it rains , it pours . 
how to take my attention , dash it violently against the rocks , and make it so that i'm contemplating my strategy for calling " shotgun " about an hour before i know the credits will roll : deny your characters the ability to think . 
have ben affleck , for some reason i'll never understand , pretend he's his dead prison buddy so that he can get his girlfriend , played by charlize theron . 
have gary sinise show up and force the two of them to participate in a poorly planned casino heist . 
the villains' big idea ? 
kidnap affleck because he used to be a security guard at the casino , force him to tell you where all the doors in the place are , then dress up in santa suits , create some " diversions " and rob the place . 
on paper , it seems like the stuff of a potential caper comedy , but veteran director john frankenheimer wrongly picks up that piece of paper and thinks he's looking at the makings for some sort of clever action-crime thriller . 
it's not like the man isn't capable . . . 
far from it . 
he's the man responsible for classic political thrillers like the manchurian candidate and seven days in may . 
he wowed me with some the most memorable car chases i've ever seen in last year's ronin . 
but he's certainly guilty of churning out some certifiable losers . . . 
put reindeer games on the shelf of shame with his 1996 version of the island of dr . moreau . 
step one in making your movie as easily forgotten as possible : cast ben affleck in the role of the world's most generic hero . 
he gets no good one-liners , he doesn't get to shoot or implode anything in new and interesting ways , and all we know about him is that he regrets his past as a car thief and wants a cup of hot chocolate and piece of pecan pie . 
his name is rudy ( short for rudolph , in all likelihood . 
see , it's called reindeer games . 
get it ? 
get it ? 
shut up . ) 
in the past , affleck has been at his best as a supporting actor , and reindeer games does nothing to further his viability as a leading man . 
step two in making your movie as easily forgotten as possible : gary sinise's villain dresses and looks like the most standard movie crook a filmmaker could have some up with . 
he's dirty and potty-mouthed , he's got long , scruffy hair and a goatee , and i fully expected him to walk out of the casino carrying sacks with giant dollar signs on them . 
he's also extremely inept at what he does . 
he thinks garish cowboy costumes and santa suits make acceptable disguises , and he trusts affleck's character to pull through even after , time and time and time again , he tricks him and lies to him and nearly kills him . 
but instead of tapping into the comic possibilities of this role , sinise seems to think he's playing some sort of tough , smart , and smooth criminal mastermind , rather than the complete moron that was obviously written into the script . 
[on a side note , gary sinise wins this week's " title ! " 
award , as he's the one who gets to awkwardly cram the name of the movie into one of his lines early in the proceedings . 
last week's winner was natasha henstridge for the whole nine yards . ] 
how to take your bad idea and make things worse : include two or three plot twists that , instead of making the apparently stupidity of the plan seem suddenly intelligent , make the plan seem even more ridiculous and unlikely . 
this is a bad movie . 
and what's worse is that , except for a few moments near the not-so-stunning conclusion as the preposterous is replaced by the ludicrously preposterous , reindeer games never really gives us the satisfaction of being laughably bad . 
if they'd done that much , at least i would have been entertained . 

in my reviews i try to make gentle recommendations rather than telling you what to see or what not to see . 
i realize that we all have different tastes and i cannot predict what my audience will like and what they will dislike . 
but in the case of american beauty , i must make an exception . 
if you haven't yet seen it , go see it . 
now . 
stop reading this review and head for your local multiplex , then after you've seen it , come back . 
i'll wait here . 
welcome back . 
if you followed my advice ( and i see no reason why you should not have , do you ? ) , 
i'm sure you've just had one of the richest cinematic experiences of your life . 
american beauty is an extraordinary film , a powerful , jolting exploration of the dark side of the american dream . 
it's humorous but it isn't funny because of the unrelenting ominous undercurrent that runs throughout the whole production . 
mixing comedy and the darkest of drama was the way this film was intended , and by god , it works , making it one of the year's very best . 
lester burnham ( kevin spacey ) has entered the mother of all mid-life crises . 
he is living life without a purpose . 
he is bored , depressed and sick of his sheltered , insignificant existence . 
he barely ever talks to his family , has no sex life , is stuck at a dead-end job and thinks he has no reason to live . 
but one day , when he and his equally troubled wife ( annette bening ) attend one of his daughter's ( thora birch ) cheerleading performances , he sees something that makes him come alive . 
what he sees is the performance by his daughter's friend , the head cheerleader . 
he develops a lust for the promiscuous young girl ; an obsession which soon becomes pedophilic in nature . 
but for the first time , lester feels that he is actually living . 
this crush is only the beginning . 
lester proceeds to make more and more radical changes in his life , buying the car of his dreams , cursing off the boss and quitting his job ( " today i quit my job , told the boss to f * * * himself and blackmailed him for $60 , 000 -- would you pass the asparagus please ? " ) , 
buying drugs from the voyeur-next-door ( ricky fitts , a teenager who mysteriously videotapes what he considers to be " beauty " ) and refusing to be docile in family affairs . 
his new attitude further alienates his daughter , only reassuring her that her parents are nothing more than freaks of nature unjustly forced on her by the powers that be , and inspiring her to enter a relationship with her eccentric neighbor . 
and the burnhams's neighbors provide american beauty with a significant chunk of its dramatic momentum . 
ricky fitts ( wes bentley ) serves as the film's thematic center , providing the obscure , powerful meaning of the title . 
colonel fitts , the father , is one of the most fascinating and complex characters in the movie , even considering his limited screentime . 
kevin spacey has never been better , and this performance will certainly earn him a chance to put a little gold person on his mantel . 
he never plays his droll character as a freak , rather , he effectively portrays him as a normal person led to drastic self-exploration by his dissatisfaction with life . 
spacey is poignant and devastating in the role of a lifetime . 
equally astonishing is young thora birch , who plays her potentially stereotypical rebellious teen character with suprising feeling and tenderness . 
at two hours and ten minutes , american beauty didn't feel nearly long enough . 
it's a complicated , unforgettable film that , like the ice storm two years ago , dares to explore the darkest reaches of suburban life . 
powerfully and cynically , it dissects the notion of the pretty house with the white picket fence and appealing garden being the american dream . 
it claims that this picture-perfect image is just that -- an image , and hiding behind it are lives much darker than common knowledge would have it . 
the dark , deeply ironic ending , though given away by our narrator in the first few minutes of the movie , stays with you for weeks after it's all over . 
american beauty is just the kind of uncompromising film hollywood needs every now and then to counterbalance the mindless drivel we see released ; even more so considering it's a masterpiece . 

taking a few tips from the pulp fiction school of filmmaking , go is the new feature from the director of the cult hit swingers . 
the story centres around a group of people , who include brit simon ( askew ) , and checkout girls claire ( holmes ) and ronna ( polley ) and the misadventures that they get into , split into three chapters . 
everything from sex to drugs to violence is covered in a film with a much blacker edge in comedy than swingers . 
although qt's touch is evident in nearly every frame , go is entertaining enough to forget about the similarities and just enjoy the rollercoaster ride . 
liman , who also photographed the film , has a deft touch with the camera , and the film looks good . 
the film also seems to have benefited from a budget , with the night-club scenes in particular looking pretty good . 
there's a twisted sense of humour running throughout which ensures that even the darkest scenes get a smirk . 
the young cast are talented and help bring the story to life . 
holmes , one of the dawson's creek cast ( a show i'm not particularly fond of ) displays much talent here , and despite her largely limited screen time manages to make a three dimensional character and never becomes a caricature . 
askew is slightly successful , being rather obnoxious . 
no doubt the filmmakers intended this to make the audience cheer when what happens to him , but instead of 'funny annoying' he's just annoying . 
he drags down slightly one of the funniest chapters , but the talent around him in that particular tale more than makes up for it . 
the real standout is sarah polley as the drug dealing checkout girl : her refreshing and deeply enjoyable performance makes the heavy going stories she is involved in much more entertaining . 
also entertaining timothy olyphant as the rather sinister drug dealer , who gives an nice evil performance . 
the script , written john august , is sharp and witty , with good dialogue and some funny jokes . 
it starts off rather slow however , but in about twenty minutes the script has found it's footing and just keeps getting better . 
the stories are largely satisfying , although occasionally there's too much attention on one detail but not on another . 
also , some of the endings seem a little forced and lucky . 
still , the cast have a meaty script to get into and obviously enjoy it . 
it could of tried a little harder in some parts however , and these parts lag . 
because this is a gen-xer movie , the obligatory rave soundtrack must accompany , and go's one is pretty decent . 
unlike other gen-xers movies , go never allows the music to substitute for plot or dialogue , which is a plus . 
go is a very easy movie to absorb into , and the audience really starts feeling for these characters . 
thankfully , they never become two dimensional characters who are bent and twisted throughout the movie to fit into the stories mechanics ( like the heroine in 10 things i hate about you . ) 
they are who they are and they stay that way . 
go is great fun , and a worthy follow up from the director of swingers . 
ignore the fact that it steals from pulp fiction and very bad things , and just sit back and enjoy the rollercoaster ride . 
erm , go to go , i guess . 

 ( note : there are spoilers regarding the film's climax ; the election , of course ) 
we see matthew broderick , a man torn to a primal state ; he's been unfaithful to his wife , lied to and manipulated his students , and by the same token they've demeaned his masculinity , his self-respect , his desperate attempt at changing the world . 
and yet , he equates the cause of his pain , his torment , with tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) . 
no matter how many students have come and gone , and disappointed him as an educator , she's the real threat . 
about to give in , and divulge that she's won by only a lone vote , broderick's mccalister turns in defeat , sees tracy's euphoric celebration in the outside corridor and says , 'no' . 
the fact that he simultaneously lusts after her ideologically further illustrates that freudian foundation of entitlement which all men , no matter how obscure , have in their relationships ; a traditional expectation of success , to usurp and surpass women as a proverbial industry . 
she can't go higher than him . 
he won't allow it . 
and what's amazing about " election " is that every word of that criticism is drawn from a rather opaque metaphor . 
early in the film we learn that tracy was romantically , and then sexually , involved with a now departed teacher . 
it's like payne and taylor , his co-screenwriter , have taken tracy , a girl desperate for friendship , loyalty , and almost perversely drawn the mythological pattern of kids who were so utterly rejected by their peers , that they found sitting at the teachers' lunch table more fitting , to an unlikely extreme with her as the protagonist . 
and it's amazing the compassion that we have ; it seems so real to us , and not merely because it's happened before , splashed all over the front pages , but , because of the all around " nice " persona of these people , we easily dismiss the truly wayward deeds of the characters . 
it's with mandy barnett's " if you'll be the teacher " playing winsomely over the closing credits that payne skewers the tenets of his detractors most ; a final , viscous injection of bittersweet irony . 
sexuality , though , is not the only basis for payne's satire , or its success . 
it also makes a telling point about politics , friendship , and class boundaries . 
satire is required ( or ought to be , anyway ) to take itself seriously , or act so , while the audience does not . 
it's a fine line to straddle , but some films ignore it altogether ( " drop dead gorgeous " leaps infuriatingly to mind ) . 
payne and taylor hit the right chord ; their characters are real people : neither is perfect , but rather both of the leads are flawed , misguided individuals who retain , somewhat , noble intentions at heart . 
we sympathize with them , but still , as a satire , their idiosyncratic behavior , and their wrongdoing , is taken to an extreme for the audience to knowingly chuckle , but also reflect and meditate , about . 
minus half a point , though , for payne admitting not to having seen " ferris bueller's day off " . 
whatever . 

arnold schwarzenegger has been an icon for action enthusiasts , since the late 80's , but lately his films have been very sloppy and the one-liners are getting worse . 
it's hard seeing arnold as mr . freeze in batman and robin , especially when he says tons of ice jokes , but hey he got 15 million , what's it matter to him ? 
once again arnold has signed to do another expensive blockbuster , that can't compare with the likes of the terminator series , true lies and even eraser . 
in this so called dark thriller , the devil ( gabriel byrne ) has come upon earth , to impregnate a woman ( robin tunney ) which happens every 1000 years , and basically destroy the world , but apparently god has chosen one man , and that one man is jericho cane ( arnold himself ) . 
with the help of a trusty sidekick ( kevin pollack ) , they will stop at nothing to let the devil take over the world ! 
parts of this are actually so absurd , that they would fit right in with dogma . 
yes , the film is that weak , but it's better than the other blockbuster right now ( sleepy hollow ) , but it makes the world is not enough look like a 4 star film . 
anyway , this definitely doesn't seem like an arnold movie . 
it just wasn't the type of film you can see him doing . 
sure he gave us a few chuckles with his well known one-liners , but he seemed confused as to where his character and the film was going . 
it's understandable , especially when the ending had to be changed according to some sources . 
aside form that , he still walked through it , much like he has in the past few films . 
i'm sorry to say this arnold but maybe these are the end of your action days . 
speaking of action , where was it in this film ? 
there was hardly any explosions or fights . 
the devil made a few places explode , but arnold wasn't kicking some devil butt . 
the ending was changed to make it more spiritual , which undoubtedly ruined the film . 
i was at least hoping for a cool ending if nothing else occurred , but once again i was let down . 
i also don't know why the film took so long and cost so much . 
there was really no super affects at all , unless you consider an invisible devil , who was in it for 5 minutes tops , worth the overpriced budget . 
the budget should have gone into a better script , where at least audiences could be somewhat entertained instead of facing boredom . 
it's pitiful to see how scripts like these get bought and made into a movie . 
do they even read these things anymore ? 
it sure doesn't seem like it . 
thankfully gabriel's performance gave some light to this poor film . 
when he walks down the street searching for robin tunney , you can't help but feel that he looked like a devil . 
the guy is creepy looking anyway ! 
when it's all over , you're just glad it's the end of the movie . 
don't bother to see this , if you're expecting a solid action flick , because it's neither solid nor does it have action . 
it's just another movie that we are suckered in to seeing , due to a strategic marketing campaign . 
save your money and see the world is not enough for an entertaining experience . 

about an hour or so into " the jackal , " a character wandered around as people were being shot at in a big suspense sequence , and one of the audience members in the theatre i saw it in shouted out " i hope she gets killed now ! " 
at that point it hit me : i didn't care for any of the characters being played by actors i didn't really like . 
when the sole reason you care about a character being played by sidney poitier in a suspense film is because he's being played by sidney poitier , you know something's rotten in the state of denmark . 
every year , a couple films like this are released . 
you know : the cheap , action packed international espionnage film , featuring a semi-promising premise , some big-name actors ( usually bruce willis ) , and the hopes that some audience members will forget the cold war ended several years ago . 
this was the third one of '97 , following the very lackluster " the saint , " which featured an amoral costume changing bond wannabe ; and the surprisingly fun " the peacemaker , " featuring clooney and kidman trying to stop an almost untraceable villain . 
 " the jackal " tries to mix both elements . 
and you thought " the saint " was bad . 
 " the jackal " is loosely ( very loosely , i hope ) based on the 1973 fred zimmerman classic that i've yet to see , " the day of the jackal , " which featured ( apparently ) a suave hitman called the jackal , played by edward fox , trying to assasinate charles degaule . 
well , welcome to the 90s , where a sorta suave hitman , also called the jackal ( bruce willis ) , trying to kill the head of the fbi . . . or 
is he ? 
after being hired by a russian mob lord as a bit of vengeance for the murder of his brother ( killed in the opening scenes ) , the jackal romps all over the northen hemisphere , from helsinki to virginia , setting up an elaborate scheme wherein he'll be able to assasinate this person and still get away to live in seclusion . 
and like the saint , the jackal changes his look over and over and over again to elude people . 
the agent working on the case , cater preston ( sidney poitier - yes , that sidney poitier ) , working with a russian agent , valentina koslova ( diane venora - lady capulet from " romeo + juliet " ) , gives up early on and meets with an ex-ira man , declan mulqueen ( richard gere , putting up some tight competition between himself and brad pitt for worst fake irish accent of '97 ) who's in a massachusetts jail , but who has apparently seen the jackal , who has been eluding the law forever . 
soon , he's out working with the two untrusting agents , and trying to help them catch him . 
there are numerous problems with the film , and which one is the biggest one is pretty impossible to put a finger on . 
the film is supposed to be a big suspense thriller , but save a couple moments , the film never achieves suspense , or even a sense of intrigue . 
sure , the big assasination attempt is a bit cool looking and even slightly tense , but every other scene in the film is too short and too dull to register . 
the film never picks up enough to become a thrilling experience , or even an entertaining one . 
it doesn't help that the plot is designed to be complex , but falls into so many problems , like plot holes and unbelievable circumstances . 
the script of " the jackal " is a complete mess , mostly because it can't decide what it wants to focus on . 
is this a film about a man trying to find redemption by catching a nasty killer ? 
is it a film about a nasty , amoral hitman who's in everything for the money ? 
or is it a combination of both ? 
 " the jackal " aims for the latter , but never focuses in on either character . 
the connection between the two feels completely edited , so much that in a scene when the jackal turns around and notices declan , you wonder how he recognized him so fast . 
the worst part is the little past they try to give declan , most notably his relationship with an old girlfriend , isabella ( mathilda may ) , given so little screen time that you almost forget her character exists until she pops up every now and then . 
the supporting characters are worse . 
sidney poitier is given a completely unplayable role , that of a man who is just stern sometimes , and other times more giving and likable . 
what is poitier doing here ? 
he's one of the best living actors ! 
does he really need to waste his time doing drivel like this ? 
diane venora's russian character is almost as bad , with a cigarette perpetually in her mouth , and a plastered on expressionless facade . 
it's not that anyone's bad here ; it's that they have nothing to do . 
the plot is a joke , feeling like it was pasted together by someone in post-production who dropped each scene on the floor and pasted them together quickly so it could be released on time . 
the jackal himself is not even much of an international villain . 
there are several times where he's in a tight situation and makes things worse for himself , the only explanation being that the filmmakers wanted to toss in a cheap thrill . 
take a scene where he's being followed by some agents into a parking garage : he quickly sprays his car another color , and adds a solvent that if touched kills the person who touched it . 
doesn't killing someone attract more attention than it does distract ? 
and does he think dying his hair bottle blond makes him fit in in a public place ? 
geez ! 
is there anything good here ? 
well . . . a 
couple things . 
i did like willis's icy expressions ; he may not have been real suave or anything , but some of his looks are worth a chuckle . 
richard gere has a couple of good moments , making his character as likable as he possibly could have . 
and a couple sequences are kicky in that kind of proposterous , completely inane but fun kinda way , most notably : a sequence where he tests out a new gun on an annoying gun builder ( jack black ) ; and a bit where he seduces a gay washington man , which has its share of a couple good jokes , most particular a kiss by willis . 
but none of these elevate the film any higher than it could go ; they're just little distractions along the way to amuse us mildly then toss us back into the world of dullness and stupidity that is " the jackal . " 
director michael caton-jones ( who directed the far superior " rob roy " ) has made a film that is made very couple months , one that is unentertaining , unintriguing , and pretty much cold , but will nevertheless make money because , hey , the trailers do make it look like it may be fun in that kind of retro-clancy kinda way . 
every now and then , the filmmakers get it right ( " clear and present danger , " which was enormous fun in that smart kinda way ) , but " the jackal " is an example of when they go completely wrong . 

i guess there are those who have never been kissed before ( a rare and dying breed ) , except if you're child ? in which case it would be called experimenting . 
rarer still are those who have never been kissed before they reach the twenties . 
hardest to believe still , is that drew barrymore has never been kissed . 
despite all these hard to believe tit bits , there are people out there who have never truly been kissed , and who are still waiting for that right person to give them the wet , sloppy warm feeling of tongues intermingling , reassuring them that their search for true love is over . 
well , this movie is about a girl waiting for the right boy to give her the kiss of her life . 
and it's sweet . 
drew barrymore who shone in ? ever after' is wonderful as ? josie , grossy' , the high school dweeb who becase a professional editor , before being assigned by her paper to return to school as an undercover reporter . 
it addresses the issues of how a dweeb , becomes a prom queen and finds the man of her life all in one sitting . 
hard to believe , but possible . 
there may also be those who have been kissed before , but in fact , never truly been given the kiss . 
so this movie can be watched by those who are waiting for true love or those who are still searching for it . 
either way , it is one enjoyable sit , with a fairytale ending . 

note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
the teaser trailers for my best friend's wedding scarsely gave reason for hope - it looked like the sort of goofy , light-hearted comedy than might put julia roberts back in the limelight , but little more ; i'd frankly rarely seen a trailer place such an emphasis on people falling over for laughs so often . 
it was then to both my surprise and my delight to find that my best friend's wedding was such a success - a strong , bouyant romantic-comedy with some decidedly unconventionally quirky comic aspects , featuring a triumphant performance from ms . roberts . 
the heroine of my best friend's wedding is julianne potter ( julia roberts ) , a successful new york restaurant critic , and we open the film with a whimsical revelation to her editor george downes ( rupert everett ) that years ago , she had made a pact with her dear best friend and ex-lover michael o'neal ( dermot mulroney ) , a sports writer , that if they both hadn't married by the time they reached 28 , they had promised to marry each other . 
both julianne and michael are both single , of course , and when george inquires about michael's age , julianne realizes that he's mere weeks away from his 28th birthday , and is quite distressed when she receives a phone call from michael later that day . 
however , she finds herself even more distraught when michael's call is in regards to his impending marriage to heiress kimmy wallace ( cameron diaz ) , and when he asks julianne to fly down to chicago for the wedding , julianne suddenly realizes that she loves michael , and resolves to break up the wedding and steal the groom by any means necessary . 
the setup for my best friend's wedding , then , is a fairly conventional one , and in many ways the film's storyline is formulaic - but only to a certain extent : the film was directed by p . j . hogan , whose first feature , muriel's wedding , had quite an offbeat tone for a traditional uplifting ugly-duckling story , and the same holds true for my best friend's wedding , which confidently combines traditional romantic-comedy elements with a really eccentric sense of humour . 
the film is innundated with sly mischievousness which seems clearly the influence of mr . hogan . 
for example , there's a heartfelt , emotional exchange between julianne and michael late in the film - with a trio of teenagers , inhaling helium and sounding every bit like alvin and the chipmunks , harmonizing in the background . 
my best friend's wedding opens with an inspired opening credit sequence which sets the tone for the film , and there are scenes where actors spontaneously burst into song to good comic effect - it could almost be argued that this film is nearly as much of a musical as woody allen's everyone says i love you ; i'd even assert it's a more successful one . 
my best friend's wedding keeps breaking conventionality with its characters as well . 
in a typical romantic-comedy , kimmy would be portrayed as a snooty , conniving ice queen , and the audience would be cheering for julianne to rescue michael from her grasps ; this film is smarter than that - here , kimmy is sweet , sincere , and innocent ; julianne even admits at one point that had she not resolved to utterly destroy kimmy's life , she'd actually like her too . 
the george character is almost a staple of recent film - the homosexual male friend of the heroine who acts as a confidant and provides the guiding voice of reason - but in my best friend's wedding , he gets to have a playful , mischievous and charming personality . 
throughout the film , the formulaisms one often sees is romantic-comedy are given little twists , and the result is a film which is compelling all the way to its somewhat unorthodox conclusion . 
there is a lot of smart writing in the well-paced screenplay by ronald bass ; we're given four interesting , vivid , and likeable characters , with some good dialogue and some genuinely charming and touching moments . 
my best friend's wedding marks a strong career rebound for julia roberts , who turns in a top-notch , confident and reassured performance as julianne . 
this isn't the sort of role one usually associates with ms . roberts - the julianne character's neurotic , fumbling characteristics are more in line with a meg ryan role - but ms . roberts works wonderfully in the film and demonstrates her aptitude at comedy here , remaining compelling and empathetic to the audience , if not entirely sympathetic , even when her deeds done to destroy the wedding plans of her best friend are less than honourable . 
even better than ms . roberts though is cameron diaz , who turns in a shining performance in my best friend's weddding . 
with a smile which lights up the screen , she effectively conveys kimmy's insecurity and utter sweetness in an endearing manner , and never hits a false note in the film . 
she even sings - i won't soon forget her charming serenade of " i just don't know what to do with myself " . 
rupert everett is given a very juicy role as george , and he makes the most of it with a hilarious turn which makes his character perhaps the most vivid and most memorable in the film . 
his george is a bit of a devilish rogue , entirely affable , and mr . everett's performance is a delight to watch ; he's clearly having fun , and his joy is infectuous . 
dermot mulroney is adequate in a thankless role - unlike the other characters in the film , he's not given a lot to do , but there is a genuine onscreen chemistry between ms . roberts and mr . mulroney , and consequently the longstanding friendship between his michael character and the julianne character always seemed completely authentic . 
when julia roberts' lustre began to fade , and she was usurped from her title as " america's sweetheart " by sandra bullock , i thought it was a canny career move on her part to take supporting roles in prestige projects like michael collins and everyone says i love you to raise her profile . 
while that didn't quite work out , it's near-certain that her successful return to the genre which made her a big star back in 1990 , the romantic-comedy , will once again raise her ante in the hollywood game . 
my best friend's wedding marks a return to form for ms . roberts , and cements p . j . hogan's reputation as a skilled director of comedy . 

 " there will be another , " the ads for this sequel proclaimed , and why not ? 
true , brandon lee is dead , but there would be no reason for him to appear in a followup to 1994's the crow , anyway . 
the idea of spinning artist james o'barr's original comic book series into a sequel franchise revolves around the notion that a different startled soul would come back from the dead in each movie , taking its own righteous vengeance against the world . 
given that basic framework , the story could move in any number of directions . 
of course , it doesn't . 
stubbornly , the crow : city of angels backtracks to the beginning of the previous film , when lee's eric draven found himself drawn back out of his grave to do a charles bronson on the thugs who tortured him and his girlfriend to death . 
i remember the first film primarily as a harrowing exercise in brutality . 
in flashback , we see the most excruciating crimes exacted on eric and his lover , and then we watch in real-time as eric pays each perpetrator back in kind . 
it's loud and repetitive , true , a sadist's delight -- but it's also horrifying and fascinating . 
city of angels gives us more of the same , but less skillfully . 
there's an audience guaranteed for a film like this , although bad reviews and poor word-of-mouth will likely ensure that it won't be much of a success . 
in fact , miramax subsidiary dimension films was so fearful of the critical reaction to this picture that reviewers were shut out of advance screenings . 
 ( i've never understood the reasoning behind this tactic , since good notices have never been key to the success of movies like the crow . ) 
so much for any confidence in the worthiness of their followup . 
this time , ashe ( french-accented actor vincent perez ) is retrieved from his watery death ( he and his young son were shackled together , shot , and then thrown off a pier ) by the crow who serves as his link between the worlds of the living and the dead . 
perez might have some screen presence if he's given something to do with himself , but here he's simply thrown in front of the camera as a pretty face . 
at first , he's shivery and frightened , but he quickly recovers from the shock of his own death and becomes a badass biker from beyond the grave . 
he's befriended by sarah ( mia kirshner ) , presumably an older version of the child who narrated the first film . 
kirshner , so beguiling in exotica , is here an exquisitely photographed blank . 
tattooed with angels' wings , sarah is just about as lovely as women come , but she serves no purpose , not even as seductress . 
the gang of punks who killed ashe are ostensibly commanded by judah ( richard brooks ) , but a far more interesting choice as leader would have been iggy pop , who plays a gaunt fellow named curve . 
iggy , all bones , veins , and drawl , is the only one who seems to have shared in the aesthetic of ruin that defines this film . 
like all good things here , he's dispatched too soon and without much imagination . 
in the meantime , we're subjected to tedious glimpses of judah's compound , where bondage is the order of the day and hot wax is poured over naked bodies in s&m fantasies that would seem shy of the cutting edge even if they weren't distinctly secondhand . 
even the soundtrack is tired . 
more than anything i've seen from hollywood lately , city of angels smacks baldly of product -- it's a movie with a lousy script but a great look . 
critics have been quick to fault the direction of mtv veteran tim pope , but his work isn't that bad per se . 
he's got a good eye , and some intriguing visual ideas -- if anything , this movie has a few too many scenes of ridiculously striking imagery . 
his major stylistic failing is that he can't seem to direct an action scene , and the quick , nonsensical cutting that ensues is reminiscent of a low budget kung fu movie . 
but as director , he must also shoulder the blame for the little screenplay that wasn't , the performers who couldn't , and an apparent lack of ideas on the parts of everyone involved . 
who bought david s . goyer's anemic script , anyway ? 
the producers of this crow were either too dim to realize their story was doomed to be a hollow rehash , or too cynical to figure their audience would know the difference . 

you know something , christmas is not about presents . 
it's about over-hyped holiday films with lots of merchandising and product tie-ins . 
at least that would seem to be the message of " the grinch , " which has been advertised since last christmas and whose logo is currently plastered all over stores . 
hollywood expects us to ignore this cynical greed as the movie scolds us about losing the true spirit of the season . 
you know the plot : there's this evil furry green guy called the grinch ( jim carrey ) who lives on a mountain overlooking whoville . 
down below all the whos are preparing for their whobilation , but the grinch is determined to steal their christmas . 
the movie is , of course , a live-action version of the beloved children's book , which was previously adapted into a 1966 tv special by looney tunes animator chuck jones . 
it's rare that a big budget hollywood release is shamed by a thirty-year-old half-hour cartoon , but that's the case when jones' version is compared to ron howard's . 
the tv grinch hit all the right notes : boris karloff's soft , deep narration ; thurl ravenscroft singing " mr . grinch " ; max the dog weighed down by the gigantic antler tied to his head ; and the grinch's wide , toothless grin . 
by contrast , the movie hits one sour note after another . 
first , there are the numerous bad choices that jeffrey price and peter seaman made in padding out the short book into a 105-minute movie . 
young wide-eyed cindy lou who ( taylor momsen ) is depressed about the misplaced priorities of her parents ( bill irwin and molly shannon ) during the holiday season . 
she begins to sympathize with the grinch , who turns out to be surprisingly sympathetic . 
cindy lou discovers that the grinch turned tearfully away from whoville in grammar school when he was publicly humiliated while expressing his love for the prettiest girl in the class , martha may whovier ( played as an adult by christine baranski ) . 
are we expected to like the grinch , hate the whos , and want him to steal christmas ? 
the grinch isn't even the villain here ; that role is filled by the corrupt mayor of whoville ( jeffrey tambor ) who was the grinch's rival for martha's affection . 
not only are the characters needlessly complex , but the once-simple plot becomes so convoluted that the actual theft of christmas seems like an afterthought . 
the casting choices aren't any better than the screenwriting decisions . 
jim carrey seems woefully miscast . 
while his face is so supple that the rubber make-up seems superfluous , carrey brings nothing else to the role . 
his accent keeps changing ; i assume he was shooting for karloff , but he ends up sounding like a weird slurry of richard nixon , sean connery , and cartman from " south park . " 
not knowing what else to do during his many scenes alone in the grinch's home , carrey falls back on his stand-up comedy and clowns around ace ventura-style . 
needless to say , his wise-cracking antics don't quite fit the character of the grinch , who is an embittered loner filled with hate . 
little taylor momsen brings little to role of cindy lou except big eyes and a cute smile . 
she would have been fine if cindy lou was limited to her original purpose in the seuss story ( finding " santa " in her living room stealing the tree ) . 
however , the expanded script makes cindy as important as the grinch , and momsen is not up to the challenge . 
bottom line : when you're stealing christmas ( movies ) , leave this one behind . 

carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) . 
once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext . 
meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie . 
he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money . 
his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions . 
in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation . 
also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners . 
there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles . 
charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes . 
his part is mildly amusing . 
richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha . 
however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer . 
although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character . 
a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress . 
the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope . 
in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny . 
joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) . 
sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques . 
additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor . 
this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing . 
however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired . 
this movie does not know where it is going . 
it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors . 
that is why this film suffers . 
a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques . 
the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while . 

wow ! what a movie . 
it's everything a movie can be : funny , dramatic , interesting , weird , funny , weird and strikingly original . 
yep that pretty much describes this movie . 
it starts out like a regular movie and ends up being one of the weirdest , funniest most original movies i have ever seen . 
it boggles the mind and some have to wonder why we cannot get movies like this more often . 
besides being one of the best films of the year , being john malkovich may as well be one of the best movies ever . 
period . 
then again there are so many good movies , that one cannot pick an all time favorite . 
john cusack plays a puppeteer craig schwartz a man out of a job , in search of a job . 
his wife lotte schwartz who is played by a completely un-noticeable cameron diaz who looks like something off the streets is an animal lover and has about every kind of animal you could think of . 
craig finds a job as a file at the 7 ? floor of a business building . . . you 
have to pry open the elevator doors open before it reaches floor eight , the 7 ? floor is just a floor between 7 and 8 . 
he is hired by his 105 year old boss ( orsen bean ) to be a filer . 
in his office , he discovers a little door , to which was boarded up and hidden . 
to his curiosity he opens it and starts to crawl toward it , he then gets sucked to the end and ends up in john malkovich's mind . 
fifteen minutes later he is shot out onto the side of the new jersey turnpike . 
he returns to tell his co-worker maxine ( catherine keener ) that he has found a portal that will lead him into john malkovich's mind , she doesn't believe him but after she sees it it changes her mind . 
lotte also finds out about the portal and discovers that being someone else is good after all . 
john malkovich of course has no idea what is going on , and by the end of this bizarre film there are so many twists and turns , that we don't know what really happened . 
john cusack is outstanding and utterly believeable in a role only he himself could play . 
he fits the role perfectly and to me was brilliantly cast . 
cameron diaz is outstanding and utterly one of the world's most prettiest women , is made up here unnoticeable and very unattractive . 
she however gives a very comic performance and this could easily be her best role to date . 
catherine keener is very funny and sexy as maxine and of course the best thing of the movie is the magic himself john malkovich who is very brilliant and this movie plays big time homage ? to the master himself . 
the whole group combined gives us a wonderfully funny movie that is also smart and clever . 
spike jonze ( three kings ) makes his fabulous directing debut , and did a fantastic job of directing this new classic film . 
he lets the viewer go on the trip as well as let the viewer know they are watching a movie . 
by the time the ending rolled around my head was spinning from disbelief of how good this film was . 
the screenplay written by charlie kaufman was hilarious and often thought-provoking . 
the film also had a soft side to it and even though the ending is very surprising it is also a little sad and heart-warming . 
the whole movie was fantastic and had me rolling in the isles . 
from cameron diaz's appearence to john malkovich's explorations i laughed very hard , and it may as well be as funny as as good as it gets ( the funniest ! ) . 
there isn't a slow point in the movie , or an overused idea . 
there are no cliches except for the fact that this is the most original , inventie , witty , and smart movie i've seen in a long time . 
i found myself amazed by everything : the direction , acting , writing and the whole idea of the movie . 
by the end i had to wonder why hollywood doesn't want to make movies like this anymore . 
or why they don't . 
all filmmakers watch this movie and get some ideas of movies to come out . 
this was a surprise hit as was american beauty . 
'being john malkovich' is in the top 5 movies of the year , and in the top 10 best films ever made . 
it has something that no other movies playing now has . 
in fact it may as well be the best movie out right now . 
i highly recommend 'being john malkovich' and have no doubts you will be disappointed . 

[note : after claiming otherwise , my appetite was indeed whetted by kenneth branagh's hamlet to search out other attempts to translate shakespeare to film in hopes of finding a better mousetrap . 
as it happens , it didn't take long . ] 
is there a more romantic director than franco zeffirelli ? 
known mainly to american audiences as the man behind 1968's romeo and juliet ( required viewing for many high schoolers , and as much as most ever learn of shakespeare ) , he is also a favorite at the metropolitan opera , where his achingly beautiful designs further the already lush emotion of many a puccini aria . 
last year he gave us his beautifully realized version of jane eyre , one of the twin peaks ( with wuthering heights ) of romantic literature . 
it might seem peculiar , then , that zeffirelli ever had an interest in translating hamlet for the screen . 
at first blush , hamlet is far removed from romance . 
the hero , though a prince , is depressed , conflicted and confused . 
the ostensible love interest gets little screen time , and her scenes with her prince are usually as an object of mockery . 
the plot is full of political intrigue and the players are as cursed as the house of atreus . 
it is zeffirelli's genius , however , that he is able to expose the romantic core of hamlet and give the sometimes dry tale an emotional embrace . 
in this italian master's hands , romance is everywhere -- in a son's worship of his father , in the bonds of deepest friendship , in the private thoughts of young lovers , even in the mystery of castles by the sea . 
after all , the story hinges on a ghost , and what could be more romantic than that ? 
what seemed like a cheap way to sell tickets at the time turned out to be one of the most romantic gestures of all , namely , hiring then-reigning hollywood hunk mel gibson to play the lead . 
who could believe that the man who made his mark playing mad max and a " lethal weapon " ( in the series of the same name ) would have the skill to succeed in the most famous role in the english language ? 
franco zeffirelli , that's who . 
and it is apparent in every frame that his instinct was right on the money . 
what gibson brings to the role is a naturalness and ease which makes the whole story meaningful , not to mention comprehensible . 
his line readings sound spontaneous rather than rehearsed . 
his movements and gestures ( excepting his sometimes too active eyes ) are totally in keeping with the character . 
this is a hamlet whose pain we feel , whose struggle we empathize with , and whose death we mourn as sincerely as horatio at film's end . 
glenn close , the other big name in the production , also does well by the script and satisfies as hamlet's mother , gertrude -- though i must confess i'm still trying to understand the character as written . 
 ( zeffirelli's incestuous interpretation of hamlet's relationship with his mother doesn't help . ) 
alan bates makes a believably evil claudius without resorting to the mannerisms of a hollywood heavy . 
by and large the rest of the cast performs admirably and comfortably . 
of special note are the cinematography by david watkin and the score by ennio morricone . 
both support the realistic mood marvelously ( as do the sets and costumes ) , without any overstated effects that declare " this is important ; this is shakespeare ! " 
i particularly appreciate that the words are often spoken without any music at all : the melody of a wonderfully wrought phrase is given its due . 
perhaps it is difficult to call edited shakespeare " definitive . " 
and there are certainly quite a few other filmed versions of hamlet that i have not seen . 
but if you've ever felt the urge to overcome your fear of the bard , this hamlet is an excellent place to start . 

for any groom on the verge of proposing marriage to his girlfriend , there are certain rules that he needs to follow . 
firstly , fill her life with happiness and romance during the courtship . 
secondly , buy her a beautiful ring that glitters as brightly as her eyes . 
thirdly , find the perfect moment and location to propose . 
finally , the groom-wannabe should probably get her parent's blessing . 
of these four , the last one can be a nightmare . 
meeting parents is a rite of passage , fraught with unexpected questions , bouts of nervousness , the reality of being disliked , and the inability to make a positive impression . 
if you're lucky , things will go smoothly . 
but , if you're greg focker ( ben stiller ) , everything will go wrong . 
and with a name like that , how could it not ? 
when greg first meets his fianc ? e's father , jack byrnes ( the grimacing robert deniro ) , greg immediately feels overwhelmed and is put on the defensive . 
when he tells jack that he's a male nurse , the incorrigible dad shoots back , " not many men in your profession , huh , greg ? " 
it's definitely not a good start . 
but greg is determined to win him over , and it's this desire that fuels the movie . 
he first takes small steps such as agreeing to say grace before dinner . 
it doesn't matter that he's jewish . 
if daddy byrnes asks him to say grace , then that's what he's going to gamely do . 
 " oh god . . . you're 
such a good god " , he moons . 
his discomfort at trying to force out a simple prayer will make you chuckle , but when jack gives him the " deniro squint " ( that familiar , unsettling gaze that gives deniro that aura of invincibility ) , it's pretty hard not to grin . 
things get progressively worse for greg . 
and that's too bad because he's a genuinely likable guy with a romantic heart . 
eventually , he begins to try so hard that he starts to mess everything up , committing a host of gaffes that embarrass , humiliate or injure other people . 
it's a never-ending ordeal of missteps , miscues , and mistakes . 
he buys some champagne , but uncorking the bottle leads to disastrous circumstances . 
he tries to find jack's missing cat . 
but his method of solving the problem leads only to more trouble . 
and there are several other episodes , each one trumping the next in outrageousness . 
the more our well-meaning beau screwed up , the more the audience groaned in sympathy . 
we liked greg . 
and , we liked this movie . 
 " meet the parents " is a farcical comedy that certainly has its moments . 
just sit back and watch greg get into trouble . 
no matter what the situation , whether its playing a harmless game of water volleyball or sneaking a smoke on the roof of the house , things will horribly go wrong . 
we laugh at greg's expense , but love often makes a person do dumb things , and ben stiller has the knack of playing the romantic fool . 
deniro is also affable , tough on the outside yet sentimental on the inside . 
their tug-of-war is often funny , the slapstick is elaborate , and there are several topical throwaway gags ( mostly targeted at the airline industry ) to make this film an amusing yet smart lampoon about future in-laws from hell . 

you've got to think twice before you go see a movie with a title like maximum risk . 
the title is generic . 
it's meaningless . 
and i can't believe it's good business . 
when you pick up the phone and dial 777-film , how in the world are you supposed to remember that the new jean-claude van damme movie , the one that looked kind of cool in the trailers and is directed by some chinese hot shot , is called , geez , maximum risk ? 
yuck . 
the movie itself deserves your attention . 
for sweet bloody thrills , this one beats the summer blockbuster competition hands-down . 
only mission : impossible came close to delivering as skillful a thriller , and i'll give maximum risk the edge simply because it's not as slick as the tom cruise picture , and therefore more gratifying in its execution . 
much to my surprise , van damme continues to develop as a pleasant , unpretentious action hero . 
his track record isn't as solid as schwarzenegger's , but he's a hell of a lot more adventurous than arnold . 
in 1993 , van damme worked with hong kong's premier hardcore action director , john woo , on a fairly lame movie called hard target . 
 ( if you can find a bootleg copy , woo's radically different director's cut is much better than what was eventually released . ) 
this follow-up is directed by ringo lam ( city on fire , full contact ) , whose hong kong films are distinguished action pictures that have consistently played second fiddle to woo's more operatic offerings . 
the surprise here is that maximum risk is a more effective hollywood action flick than either hard target or woo's subsequent broken arrow . 
here's the rundown . 
van damme plays a french cop named alain moreau who is shaken when a policeman friend ( jean-hugues anglade ) finds a corpse that's alain's exact double . 
turns out alain was separated at birth from his twin brother , michael , who has been killed by some russian heavies ( and some strangely american looking cops ) . 
alain does some investigating . 
he finds that michael had booked a flight to new york city , and received a message from someone there named alex bohemia . 
assuming michael's identity , alain flies to new york and gets tangled up with michael's girlfriend ( natasha henstridge ) , the fbi , and the russian mob in little odessa . 
that's as much as you need to know . 
the story is adequate , but not overly involving -- and the major plot points are basically explained to you twice , just in case you go out for popcorn at the wrong moment . 
there's a love story , too , but i didn't find it terribly convincing , partly because ex-model henstridge is too high-strung in her high-profile debut ( she had precious few lines as the alien ice queen in species ) . 
she's great to look at , and she can certainly read a line , but what she does here can't really be described as " acting . " 
of course , " acting " isn't really what she was hired for ( i lost track of whether her shirt comes off more often than van damme's ) . 
the movie is exceptionally violent , bordering on gratuity . 
 ( keep that in mind when planning your date . ) 
the stunts are spectacular , and the fact that you can spot van damme's stand-in makes his work no less impressive . 
there's only so much you can do with a car wreck , but this movie makes crisp , effective use of pile-ups in a handful of frenzied destruction derbies . 
and lam has a surprising , innovative sense of exactly where the camera should go to catch any bit of action . 
the main difference between lam and woo , i believe , is that while woo relies on sheer spectacle to gas up his action show pieces , lam has figured out more about using cinematic space and double-barreled points of view to make things run . 
don't get me wrong -- when chow yun-fat soars through space pumping bullets out of two pistols and chewing on a toothpick with glass and confetti littering the air around him in woo's hard-boiled , it's an amazing moment . 
but it's a moment that's hard to reproduce in hollywood . 
 ( for one thing , hollywood doesn't yet have chow yun-fat ! ) 
while woo's hollywood movies look like the work of a talented upstart , maximum risk is a surprisingly confident picture . 
the very first shot of the film is an awkward overhead view of a chase through the streets of a european city , but lam's use of odd camera angles becomes more efficient later on . 
the film editing is a particularly savvy complement to lam's shooting style , accentuating rather than amplifying the action . 
the performances could have used some fine tuning ( in particular , there's an annoying , overwritten manhattan cab driver in the early scenes who should have been toned down or jettisoned completely ) , and the movie doesn't always overcome the limitations of its genre . 
the story is a little mundane , although there are some effective moments involving van damme's unrequited feelings toward the brother he never knew he had . 
but it's not often that hollywood cranks out a truly satisfying action picture , and it's doubly surprising that this one should come with a mere whisper of publicity . 
van damme fans should treat themselves to what may well be the man's best movie , and international action buffs will no doubt savor this flavorful hong kong/hollywood hybrid . 

when you go to the movies as much as i do , you unfortunately end up seeing certain movie trailers one too many times . 
such was the case with frequency . 
every time i went to a screening , there was the frequency preview . 
it looked awful . 
it looked cheesy , sappy and ridiculous . 
it looked like a flop . 
well , whoever put that trailer together should be fired , because in terms of pure entertainment , frequency is one of the best of the year thus far . 
frequency boasts a compelling story line . 
an occurrence of freakish solar activity allows police detective john sullivan ( james caviezel ) to speak to his fireman father frank sullivan ( dennis quaid ) through a ham radio , despite the fact that frank has been dead for 30 years . 
john is able to give his father information that prevents his death in a warehouse fire , but by doing so causes other changes . 
somehow , a serial killer's reign of terror , which in the original timeline had been stopped at three murders , extends to ten victims . . . 
including john's mother . 
this is director gregory hoblit's third film ( the other two being primal fear and fallen ) . 
with all three , he's managed to attach himself to great scripts ( this one by toby emmerich , whose only previous movie experience was as a music supervisor on numerous new line films ) and add equally great direction . 
also , he apparently likes to have his films wrap up with a kick-ass ending . 
frequency is no exception , the ending is unpredictable and incredibly satisfying . 
hoblit is three for three , and i hope he can keep it up . 
now everyone can argue logic this and logic that all you want with the sci-fi elements of frequency . 
but the fact of the matter is that time travel has never been achieved . 
who's to say how something works and how it doesn't when it's never happened ? 
is it because we've become accustomed to time travel " laws " from other places like " star trek " and the back to the future trilogy and " quantum leap " ? 
yes , if you sit down and think about it , certain plot elements in this film probably won't make any sense . 
most films are like that . 
don't let that dissuade you from seeing this fantastically entertaining film however . 
when frequency was over , it made me wish i had seen it with my father so i could have given him a hug ( okay okay , shut up ) . 
when you break it down past all its sci-fi elements and serial killer antics , frequency is simply a movie about a father and his son and the bond that they share . 
it's touching , it's sincere , and it's what ultimately makes this movie work . 
[pg-13] 

janeane garofalo in a romantic comedy -- it was a good idea a couple years ago with the truth about cats and dogs but is almost excruciating in the matchmaker . 
this is a by-the-books movie that plods along on a predestined course with no surprises and very few laughs . 
it also jumps on the ever-popular political satire bandwagon and manages to fall flat there , too . 
garofalo plays a campaign aide to a massacusetts senator ( jay o . sanders ) running for reelection . 
denis leary plays the stereotypical strategist with no ethics who decides the only way for the scandal- plagued senator to win is to play up his irish roots and cash in on that boston roman catholic democrat contingent that's made the kennedy family so popular . 
so leary orders garofalo to go to ireland and dig up some relatives to exploit . 
she soon learns why " easier said than done " is the mantra of movies like this . 
the matchmaker falls for every cliche of things that can go wrong -- garofalo has to take a tiny plane to ireland , almost misses the bus to town , can't get a hotel room , ends up in the smallest , trashiest one around , has a dog piss on her luggage , and so on . 
then comes what roger ebert calls the " meet cute . " 
it happens in every romance : the man and woman have to meet each other for the first time in some unconventional , cinematic way . 
in the matchmaker , it happens when garofalo walks into her hotel bathroom and finds a nude sean ( david o'hara ) in the bathtub , his dog sitting at his side . 
no points for guessing it's the same dog that just made water on her luggage . 
also no points for guessing garofalo hates o'hara on sight . 
that's how it works in movies like these . 
i know from the instant i saw that irishman in the bathtub that she'd hate him for awhile , then succumb to his charms , live happily for a reel or so before allowing some superficial detail to throw the relationship into turmoil , after which they'd reconcile in time for a happy irish tune to play over the end credits . 
i haven't mentioned the movie's twist yet . 
garofalo comes to the small ireland town during the annual matchmaking festival , during which lonely folks from around the county pair off into a future of bliss . 
milo o'shea ( who looks like an irish tom snyder ) is the matchmaker who pops onscreen occasionally to spew his words of wisdom and bring lonely souls together . 
rest assured he'll do all he can to match up garofalo and o'hara . 
oh , and in keeping with the matchmaker's utter predictability , he dies toward the end . 
what the message here ? 
sometimes even the most respectable person of comedic distinction , like garofalo , will sell out with a weak script . 
i was excited to see garofalo and leary in the same movie , but they actually only have two or three scenes together . 
leary stays stateside , for the most part , yelling at garofalo over the phone and generally being an asshole . 
he even undoes himself with the old microphone's still on after he's done giving the speech cliche . 
both of them should have known better . 

a fully loaded entertainment review - website coming in july ! 
i didn't really expect very much when i rented stuart saves his family . 
the movie bombed at the box office , and i had never really liked the saturday night live sketch on which the movie was based . 
my real concern , though , was the general reputation of snl-related movies translating to the big screen with less-than-stellar results ( half-baked , anyone ? ) 
i was surprised to discover a truly entertaining , often hilarious yet also touching little film . 
it is an al franken production through-and-through , who not only created the title character but also wrote and starred in the picture . 
for those of you who don't know , al franken plays a guy named stuart smalley , who has a really annoying show on a public-access station about increasing your self-esteem , etc . although not a licensed therapist , stuart smalley is , as the program proudly boasts , " a graduate of several 12-step programs . " 
stuart is doing well enough with his tv show , but he keeps getting distracted by family troubles . 
stuart's relatives are a mess : his dad and brother ( harris yulin and vincent d'onofrio , respectively ) are alcoholics , his sister is overweight and getting over another divorce , and his mom is in constant self-denial and solves all perceived problems by baking . 
then , disaster strikes . 
stuart accidentally insults the manager of the station and gets his show revoked . 
he is forced to move back in with his family after he can no longer support himself , and there the comedy truly picks up . 
franken wrote all of the characters not just as cliches or stereotypes , but as sharply-drawn , real people . 
although smalley's dad has always imbibed too much , stuart can still recall times when his father seemed like an okay guy . 
also , after an accident towards the end of the movie , both stuart and the audience learn that there is more to his mother than previously thought . 
although filled with small , very funny scenes , stuart saves his family also has its share of dramatic moments , especially towards the conclusion . 
for a lightweight comedy , it handles these scenes especially well , often better than many so-called " serious dramas " of today . 
all the more amazing is that such a movie comes from a saturday night live sketch that is essentially a one-joke bit . 
if you feel like renting a comedy , and you haven't seen this film , i definitely recommend you try this one out . 
you'll laugh . . . you'll 
cry . . . . it's 
all there . 

so what do you get when you mix together plot elements from various successful sci-fi films such as close encounters of the third kind , 2001 : a space odyssey , apollo 13 and contact ? 
well , whatever it is , you'd sure as hell hope that it would be a thousand times better than this shoddy attempt at such a melange , considering the disastrous results we're left with here . 
this is a film that takes a little bit of everything , but ultimately adds up to a lot of nothing ! 
it's like i said . . . this 
movie sucks . 
plot : a rescue crew of astronauts is sent down to mars in the year 2020 , after an unknown energy force leads to a loss of contact with the previous gang of space aviators to visit the red planet . 
critique : extremely underwhelming is the best way to describe this movie . 
uneven , would be another . 
the trailer for this movie actually showed some promise , the buzz around it had been so-so , and even the film itself starts off with a decent first twenty minutes , all leading you to believe that it's actually going to go " somewhere " . 
but it isn't long before the entire movie downshifts into neutral , features more space walks than anything interesting on the cherry-colored planet , tries too hard to get us into the " pain " of some its characters and unsuccessfully tosses some romance into the mix . 
in a sci-fi movie ? 
well , i don't know , much of it just seemed like a bunch of nerdies talking techie jargon for about an hour and a half , only to figure out some big secret in the end , a secret which practically had me yawning with excitement . 
ultimately , this is a movie that starts off with a decent premise , joins the crew in their " misadventures in space " for the main crux of its journey , and eventually settles down for one of the most anti-climactic endings this side of contact . 
mind you , if you enjoyed that film's shrug-of-the-shoulders ending , you might just enjoy this frivolous ditty as well . 
of course , i don't remember contact having such obvious and painfully distracting computer generated effects at its end of story . 
ugh . 
what a friggin' mess . 
films like this generally get me wondering about the brass in hollywood again . 
didn't anybody recognize the crappiness in this script ? 
didn't they read the bad dialogue , the cheezy lines , the obvious derivative nature of the work ( mind you , with a director like depalma at the helm , that ain't saying much ! ) . 
of course , you can't really blame the brass for the inclusion of jerry o'connell in this fine crew of thespians . 
'nuff said . 
neither can you blame them for depalma cranking up the juice on the film's musical score during the last fifteen minutes , presumably in order to wake the audience up ( okay , we get it brian , this scene is supposed to be powerful . . . wow . . . yawn . . . my 
ears hurt ! ) . 
so is anything salvageable in this movie ? 
sure . 
gary sinise does another great job , as does cheadle , the film doesn't completely bore you as much as it just moves along slowly without anything really interesting happening , and yes , the " sand-twister " effect that you see in the commercial is well done . 
other than that ? 
i guess i could say that i admire how filmmakers have become so much more devious in their product placement strategies . . . oops , 
did i say " admire " , i meant " am disgusted " ! 
all in all , this movie delivers very little in actual substance , offers two-bit dialogue masked in a lot of sci-fi mumbo-jumbo , pretends to be deep when really it's just sappy , and eventually just settles into an ending which , other than presenting us with a pathetic computer graphic as a part of the story , gives us little more to think about than how we might be able to get our money back for sitting through this rehashed dreck . 
go see the ninth gate . . . now 
there's a great movie ! 
and on a personal note , i think it's time for depalma to stop worrying so much about his proverbial 12-minute uninterrupted film sequences , and start worrying more about how crappy his movies are getting . 

`bats' is an insulting slap across the face for any dedicated horror movie fan . 
to pull something like this off , you need to have a sense of wit and style , with a heavy dosage of humor to back up the process if the fright factor ever declines . 
something like the underground worm thriller `tremors' had just the perfect mixture of these elements , and in return , the film was tremendous fun . 
with the notable exception of a wisecracking supporting player , `bats' mainly plays it's premise for straight-arrow horror . 
judging by the ridiculous premise , this was not exactly a wise move . 
the movie attempts to capture the essence of alfred hitchcock's `the birds' , but fails miserably . 
done right , it could have been adequately amusing halloween cinema . 
unfortunately , `bats' is a prime example of a formula movie done terribly , terribly wrong . 
the only thing amusing about this festering pile of guano is in how intelligible the filmmakers anticipate their core audience to be . 
i will recite the following paragraph in a manner that will reach the audience of individuals to whom `bats' is aimed toward . 
those guys in hollywood have made a movie about bats . 
these bats are not very nice , because they eat a lot of people . 
boy , are these bats ugly . 
they are infected with this bogus virus that makes them super-duper smart . 
they've got big claws and red eyes and they are not very friendly at all . 
a whole bunch of people in texas get killed , so a sheriff guy and a scientist lady are brought in to kill the bats . 
they have big guns and other cool things to fight them with , but the bats are pretty smart , so it's sorta hard to do . 
the bats swoop down and they shoot at them to make they go away for good . 
but no , `bats' is probably too violent for pre-schoolers . 
the film , directed by louis morneau , should have ventured straight into video stores . 
on the small screen , perhaps more fun could have been derived with lower expectations . 
but sitting through this crapper on the big screen is almost awkward ; although at a few moments it becomes a guilty pleasure , the film is poorly written , poorly acted and executed with glaring ineptitude . 
even the bats themselves are cheesy , and the attack sequences too rushed and jittery to be properly enjoyed . 
the sheriff in the story is emmett kimsey ( lou diamond phillips ) , who embodies every pathetic stereotype a small-town authority figure usually portrays ( he chomps on a cigar , struts contentedly in his boots , etc . . . ) . 
the scientist is dr . sheila casper ( dina meyer ) , who specializes in flying mammals and is classified as `the best in her field' . 
meyer uses a lot of technical terms designed to make the movie seem more intellectually capable , but everything about dr . casper is recycled beyond recognition . 
her memories of how she became hooked on the topic of bats sounds suspiciously like oceanographic student matt hooper's tale of how he became infatuated with sharks in `jaws' . 
everything revolving around `bats' is tired drivel , which desperately requires some directorial style or acting capabilities to spruce it up . 
the supporting cast could have been constructed out of straw , with voices dubbed in later . 
in fact , that may have worked out better in the end . 
take one glance at casper's bat-loathing sidekick jimmy ( leon ) , and you'll have immediate deja vu - he's the exact same humorous buddy caricature from every other movie , constructed specifically for timed comic relief . 
unfortunately , none of his comic interludes are funny . 
in the role of deranged mad scientist dr . mccabe , the reliable bob gunton gets cornered with the most hideously idiotic character in the bunch . 
mccabe `accidentally' released two experimental test subjects , and the virus spread to other bats . 
the entire town of gallup , texas is under attack from an enormous swarm of the creatures , but gunton appears to be inconspicuously contemplating something else . 
something like : `when is the damn movie going to be over ? ? 
i just want my money . ' 
the bats are ugly , i must say . 
there's the occasional moment where they look moderately convincing , but mainly , the swarm is represented in cheesy digital imagery . 
only bits of the bloody action even hint at the campy fun the film could have been , but by the absurdly stupid climax , it's way too late in the game for a decent recovery . 
characters experiment in slaughtering the bats with gunfire . 
let's explore the logic there : is this really a very efficient way to decrease the bat population ? ? 
you could empty an entire clip at the flying winged serpents and not even wound one , and after that there are only 18 , 000 more of them . 
this kind of behavior represents the regular level of intelligence behind `bats' . 

the only historical figure that has been written about more than william shakespeare is jesus christ , which explains why the bard's materials are such a popular source for remakes , revisions , rewrites , inspiration , subtlety , credit , and dispute . 
indeed , in recent years , american contemporary cinema has been swamped with a wash of shakespearean products . 
including this year's upcoming a midsummer night's dream , shakespeare's material has been the cause for twenty-six big screen productions since 1990 . 
but for a change of pace , mrs . 
brown director john madden gives us a story of the bard himself in the wonderfully vibrant shakespeare in love . 
marc norman and tom stoppard's story is largely fantasy , although as the viewer soon learns , shakespeare in love is not a movie that takes itself seriously . 
 ( will shakespeare of the 1590's would've been married to anne hathaway , and he would've had a teenage daughter and two young sons ; here he is a bachelor played by joseph fiennes . ) will is a writer struggling to come up with a great play , and his current comedy in the works -- " romeo and ethel , the pirate's daughter " -- just doesn't quite seem right . 
with the help of the great writer christopher marlowe ( rupert everett ) , and the inspiration of true love with noblewoman viola de lesseps ( gwyneth paltrow ) , he changes things around and writes one of his greatest tragedies , " romeo and juliet . " 
the love story between will and viola loosely parallels the story of romeo and juliet , to great effect . 
fiennes and paltrow develop a sexy chemistry as the two lovers which gives the movie much momentum ; this momentum smoothes out the bumps in the unfinished and largely unsuccessful comedy . 
the supporting roles are well filled out , from geoffrey rush as will's worrisome agent , philip , to tom wilkinson as the producer hugh fennyman . 
even ben affleck , leading the troupe of actors , manages to make a favorable impression ; and judi dench lends some brief moments of screen time as queen elizabeth i . gwyneth paltrow is by far , however , the standout of the lot , creating a large percentage of the forementioned vibrance . 
the story is well-crafted if nothing else , although it has dangerous moments where it flirts with the " let's make a movie " -genre . 
the dialogue is breezy and lighthearted , and certainly accessible by the audience's lowest common denominator . 
there's something for everyone in this romantic comedy , making it prime date flick material . 
although certainly not inspiring in any regard , it revels in a wholesome , well-rounded atmosphere that has been absent in many of 1998's pictures ; the true-love story is one of the best around . 
certainly recommendable when the traditional slew of indifferent year's-open releases is just around the corner . 

 " book " should have remained in shadows 
book of shadows : blair witch 2 
a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman 
certain things in our lives are inevitable . 
death , sorrow , love , heartbreak , pain , joy . 
we expect these events . 
we know they're going to happen and some , we even look forward to . 
it's part of the human condition . 
we have also become accustomed to inevitable occurrences in our society . 
as we near the fall election , several of them are hitting us in the face . 
politicians exaggerate their own importance . 
our side is always right ; theirs is always wrong . 
in the end , voters are usually forced to choose the lesser of two whocares . 
in hollywood the one indisputable inevitable is that if a film makes big money , there will be a sequel . 
even if the original story doesn't merit one . 
even if the first film is complete in itself . 
even if success is a fluke . 
 " the blair witch project " was made with a budget of $1 . 75 and exploded on the screen , raking in huge profits . 
the concept was brilliant . 
the filmmakers created a remarkable buzz that the story might be real . 
the film itself was even more convincing . 
the movie _must_ be authentic . 
why else would such amateurish footage be on the big screen ? 
the first film caught lightning in a bottle . 
the sequel proves you can't pour that old lightning into a new bottle . 
you have to give this effort some credit . 
it would have been easy to have made the same movie again with a new group of kids . 
it would have been easy , but of course , it wouldn't have worked . 
instead " book of shadows " acknowledges the first film as a movie and concentrates on the hysteria following its release . 
it's a great scheme and possibly the only entertaining way to do a sequel . 
unfortunately it doesn't work either . 
five kids spend the night in the woods at the scene of the first film . 
weird stuff happens and they retreat to an old factory where one of them lives . 
even weirder stuff happens . 
some people die , there's blood and knives and none of the characters have a lick of common sense . 
while supposedly doing serious research , the group sets up a circle of surveillance cameras in the ruins of the old house in the woods and vows to stay alert all night awaiting a visitation . 
then they proceed to get totally trashed on drugs and alcohol and party down with very loud , very obnoxious heavy metal music . 
it's a bad plan . 
the cast shows some early promise . 
a couple is doing research on a " blair witch " book . 
the tour guide is a former mental patient turned ebay aficionado . 
a goth amazon princess adds a bit of comedic relief . 
the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spiritual cinematic descendent of the cute hippie chick , the cute rock and roll chick and the cute disco chick : the cute wiccan chick . 
the first film's unaccomplished actors came across as real people in a real situation because hours and hours of video were shot during days in the woods . 
this time , these unaccomplished actors just come across as unaccomplished actors . 
there's not one character you care about when they start shouting for no reason . 
although what passes for a plot starts out with a solid idea , it's ruined by poor execution . 
the follow-up to one of the most successful horror films ever is nothing more than a bad slasher movie . 
they're trapped in an old big weird house . 
they stupidly separate into various rooms . 
there are strange noises , they see scary apparitions and people disappear . 
ever see this movie ? 
seasoned documentary director joe berlinger should know better . 
the film features mostly cheap tricks and unnecessary gore . 
for a storyline filled with surprises , it's oddly predicable . 
 " the blair witch project " was a rare triumph of style over substance . 
 " the book of shadows " is a triumph of tedium over promise . 

in this year's summer movie preview issue of _entertainment_weekly_ , theresa connelly described her writing-directing debut , _polish_wedding_ , as " a child that did not quite become the child i thought it would . " 
one wonders what exactly she originally had in mind for this jumbled film , a comedy-drama that appears doomed at its most basic elements . 
the family at the center of _polish_wedding_ is the pzoniaks , which consists of mother jadzia ( lena olin ) , father bolek ( gabriel byrne ) , sole daughter hala ( claire danes ) and four sons of varying degrees of facelessness . 
it's a large family , but there's not a sympathetic one in the whole bunch , certainly not in the primary trio . 
jadzia takes pride in building and maintaining a home and family , but she's kind of a hypocrite since she's carrying on an affair with a businessman rade serbedzija ) . 
her excuse for her affair is neglect from bolek , who is such a passive wimp that one cannot connect with his sadness and frustration . 
also , how could he possibly pay so little attention to the saucy , sexy jadzia ? 
hala is a spoiled , self-centered high school dropout whose reckless sexual experimentation predictably leads to pregnancy . 
with such an unappealing set of characters , it's no surprise that _polish_wedding_'s plot complications are far from involving . 
naturally , jadzia and bolek would like hala to marry the young cop , russell schuster ( adam trese ) , who fathered the child , but he refuses to make such a commitment . 
ho-hum . 
another complication , involving the decidedly un-virginal hala being selected to crown a statue of the virgin mary , is first played for laughs and then , inexplicably , as a profound statement in the film's climax--which , ironically , is funnier than any of the film's lame attempts at humor , such as a painfully labored slapstick attempt where jadzia leads her sons in a charge to beat up russell . 
that scene is but one in a number of writing miscues by connelly . 
the jadzia-bolek conflict is resolved in an overly pat way not unfamiliar to sitcom viewers . 
the hala-russell conflict isn't resolved in as contrived a manner , but their ultimate resolution will leave viewers wondering if they had missed something . 
and then there's some atrocious dialogue , which i am sure was not supposed to be as ridiculous as they sound : " look at all these pickles . 
just looking at them gives me such great sadness . " 
as misguided as _polish_wedding_ is , the affair is something of a letdown , considering the strong performances by byrne , danes , and especially the fiery olin . 
they obviously believed in connelly and her material--a faith that audiences will be hard-pressed to share . 

dreamworks pictures presents a jinks/ cohen company production kevin spacey annette bening " american beauty " thora birch allison janney peter gallagher mena suvari wes bentley and chris cooper co-producers stan wlodkowski alan ball music by thomas newman costume designer julie weiss film editor tariq anway chris greenbury production designer naomi shohan director of photography conrad l . hall , a . s . c . 
produced by bruce cohen & dan jinks written by alan ball directed by sam mendes 
 " both my wife and daughter think i'm this gigantic loser . 
and they're right . 
i have lost something . 
i didn't always feel this sedated . " 
with that piece of dialogue , we are fully introduced to lester burnham ( kevin spacey ) , a 42 year old man trapped within his own life . 
lester works for an advertising agency . 
his growing dissatisfaction with his job is only one of the mid-life crisis he is suffering . 
estranged from both his wife and his daughter , lester starts to crack under the stress . 
his life becomes nothing more than a series of mastubatory fantasies , and sullen apathy . 
carolyn burnham ( annette bening ) , is the prototypical career woman/ homemaker . 
she carefully tends her rose garden , decorates her home with the best furnishings . 
but inside she is desperate . 
unsuccessful at her profession as a real estate agent , she drives herself into states of denial and self loathing that only feed her growing resentment towards her family . 
the third member of this anti-family is jane burnham ( thora birch ) , lester and carolyn's daughter . 
a young girl going through the typical stages of adolescence , but having to also come to terms with her families growing dysfunction . 
this funny ( and frightening ) slice of life is refreshingly simple . 
not one character is given less than is needed to identify him or her . 
some of the most telling characters are those that serve to highlight other characters . 
most notably is barbara fitts ( allison janney ) , the almost catatonic wife of retired marine colonel fitts . 
she has almost no dialogue , and seems to be either recovering from a stroke or suffering from one . 
colonel fitts ( chris cooper ) is an angry and frightened man . 
his rage directed almost singularly at his son , ricky ( wes bentley ) who has just moved with his family to the same neighborhood as the burnham's . 
in fact they are the next door neighbors . 
anymore detail into the personalities of these marvelously diverse characters would deprive one of the many pleasures and surprises to be had in " american beauty " . 
alan ball , who was the co-executive producer of the hit tv series " cybil " and creator of the new sitcom " oh grow up " , has fashioned one of the most insightful and expertly tuned screenplays to have hit the screen in the past ten years . 
not one character in this film rings falsely . 
and the depth of personality in each , is achingly honest and insightful . 
the plot detailing the last year in the life of a man as he tries to find his own self worth is so resoundingly cliched and at the same time original as to bring to mind such marvelous film work as " the graduate " or " lolita " . 
kevin spacey turns in one of this years most pragmatic performances . 
his lester burnham is an everyman caught up in the middle of a life that is spiraling into old age . 
finally unable to deal with the lost soul that he has become , lester tries to return to his youth . 
he quits his job ( actually blackmailing his employer for one year's salary ) , starts smoking pot , fantasizes about his daughter's girlfriend angela ( mena suvari , in a marvelous performance here ) , starts working out , and finally takes a job at the local fast food outlet . 
mr . spacey's performance is so remarkably subtle and ingenuous , that we can be certain that come oscar ? time , we can be assured to see him name among the five nominees . 
annette bening also turns in what may be the best performance of her career . 
carolyn burnham is a woman who has become so insecure as to be caught up in maintaining the facade of normalcy . 
unable to cope with her growing disillusionment , she forces herself to maintain her demeanor , driving her further and further into desperation , adultery and possibly murder . 
ms . bening makes the character of carolyn so compelling as to be identifiable to almost anyone . 
the slow and methodical turn from happy home maker to charnel house martha stewart is too frightening to express in words . 
thora birch holds her own against the talents cast with her . 
jane burnham is both an innocent girl caught up in what is a dysfunctional family , and a rebellious child ready to abandon them at any moment . 
her growing distrust and isolation from her family is something that many parents should view as a warning . 
she is the prototypical trophy child . 
when carolyn praises her daughter after a performance by her cheerleading team ( " i'm so proud of you , honey . 
you didn't screw up once ! " ) , the bitterness and resentment are palpable . 
thora birch is a young actress to watch . 
praise must also go to chris cooper who brings yet another angry father role to life with depth and resonance . 
colonel finn is a man in complete denial . 
his military upbringing masking a desire he is too repulsed to even comprehend . 
wes bentley as ricky finn is fine as the enigma . 
the boy next door who may be more foe than friend . 
a deceitful and calculating young man , whose voyeuristic proclivities mask a deeper and more profound understanding of life than any of the adults around him . 
mr . bentley's performance is the one troublesome note in the film . 
that is simply because the character is such a grand and complete liar , that one almost faults the performance for it . 
director sam mendes handles all of the particulars of the cast and the settings with a sure and composed style that is neither intrusive nor subtle . 
scenes of carolyn walking through the rain , carry an ominous fission that calls attention to the emotions of the character . 
the subtle cinematography by conrad hall is wonderful , capturing the season in all of it's harsh beauty ( fall has never looked so inviting , yet depressing ) . 
every nuance of " american beauty " begs it's audience to think and examine . 
it is a film that will be discussed and debated for years to come . 
and well it should , as it is simply one of this years best . 

depending on your degree of cinematic acumen , last man standing is either a ) a prohibition-era remake of akira kurosawa's 1961 classic yojimbo ; b ) a prohibition-era remake of sergio leone's 1964 classic a fistful of dollars ; c ) a prohibition-era action drama with a completely original story-line . 
new line is certainly counting on the fact that there are far more potential viewers in category ( c ) than in the other two combined , much as the recent remakes of diabolique and the vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons . 
the fact is that there is yet another way of looking at last man standing , which is as the first film version of the story which nods to the _real_ source material , the dashiell hammett novel _red harvest_ . 
it also shows that kurosawa and leone knew better what to do with that material than hammett himself . 
this time around , the man with no name is played by bruce willis , a fellow with a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into the texas border town of jericho one day on his way to mexico . 
by all appearances , jericho is well on its way to becoming a ghost town , with the few remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for control of liquor coming over the border . 
one is headed by an irishman named doyle ( david patrick kelly ) ; the other is run by chicago-connected italian mobster strozzi ( ned eisenberg ) . 
calling himself john smith , the man decides that there is money to be made from the conflict , and hires himself out as an enforcer to doyle's side . 
but smith's allegiance is as uncertain as his name , and he begins to play the two sides against each other while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them . 
viewers familiar with both previous incarnations of this story will find virtually nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint , and that alone should make last man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes-cum-bastardizations . 
there is the happily ineffectual lawman ( bruce dern ) , the unhappily detained object of one of the bosses' affections ( karina lombard ) , the barkeep who becomes our anti-hero's only friend ( william sanderson ) , suspicious lieutenants ( christopher walken and michael imperioli ) to question the bosses' trust in smith , a brutal beating , and a big fire . 
director walter hill gives the proceedings his usual injection of steroids , including a pair of guns for willis which have the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity , but at least he doesn't try to turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture . 
what he _does_ do is nearly as big a mistake , and that is to provide a running voice-over narration by willis which rings of the standard hard-boiled style of pulp detective fiction . 
yes , that narration is full of cliches , but those are are not particularly troubling . 
the problem is that both yojimbo and a fistful of dollars succeeded largely on the inscrutability of their lead characters . 
they were a mystery , to the other characters in the film and to the audience , their motives never entirely clear even after they have acted , and that quality contributed to their almost mythical status . 
with john smith's voice chattering on in the background and allowing us into his every thought , he becomes more mundane , just another tough guy trying to stay alive . 
it feels like a hammett novel , all right , and hill can plead faithfulness to his text for his choice , but it simply doesn't work . 
the narration allows the man with no name to take us into his confidence , and the man with no name takes _no one_ into his confidence . 
even if you walk into last man standing as a blank slate , i can't imagine it being much more than a heavily armed minor distraction . 
willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith , but there is still a level on which he always seems like he is counting on being tougher than everyone else rather than smarter than everyone else . 
christopher walken plays doyle's brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft-spoken psychos , and there isn't another single character whom makes even the slightest impression . 
with no compelling antagonist for smith , there is no build-up towards the expected showdown , and when it does come , that showdown is over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss was about . 
cinematographer lloyd ahern ( who also did the only noteworthy work on hill's 1995 flop wild bill ) creates some nifty sunburned vistas , but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire and the next bit of counter-productive narration . 
sometimes when someone sees a lackluster remake of a revered original , they'll wonder what all the talk was about . 
in the case of last man standing , it is those who know the originals who will wonder what all that talking was about . 

godzilla is a nuclear freak . 
he is a lizard that has been mutated over the years and has become a new species , one that has a foot as long as this bus , and a claw as long as this sign . 
this aquatic creature made its first attack in the pacific islands . 
he tore up a ship that carried dozens of japanese men . 
one survived . 
only he was left to recount the terror that he had seen . 
he was merely able to repeat the words " godzilla . . . godzilla . . . godzilla " . 
the film then introduces us to matthew broderick , a biologist who has been studying the fascinating growth of chernobyl earthworms . 
 " they're 17% larger than they used to be ! " he proclaims . 
the u . s . military pulls him off this three year project and assigns him to figure out what godzilla is . 
and , boy , does he find out . 
and , boy , does godzilla suck . 
i hate to use such a word in a review , something that is supposed to inform my audience , but i really need to drive this one home and i refuse to use explitives . 
it is unbelieveable to me how the producers of this movie saw the final cut and said , " ok ! 
it's great ! 
let's show this puppy . " 
roland emmerich needs a good horse whipping . 
his latest piece of trash makes id4 look like a masterpiece of modern american cinema . 
and if steven spielberg had never made the jurassic park films , emmerich and his team of talent-challenged imbeciles would never have had a clue as to how the creature should look . 
let me give you a few examples of this terrible attempt at filmmaking . 
i plan on giving some things away here . 
belive me , godzilla holds no surprises for anyone with an iq higher than their shoe size , so . . . no 
worries . 
however , if you are looking for that " first time thrill " and you refuse to let me do you this favor , by all means , stop reading now . 
a . ) godzilla makes his first ever attack in the pacific islands . 
he next strikes in new york city . 
um . . . anyone have a map handy ? 
b . ) the mayor of new york city is a heavy set individual with parted gray hair and thick glasses . 
his name is mayor ebert . 
his assistant is named gene . 
gene gives ebert a thumbs down at the end of the film . 
i couldn't make this up if i tried , folks . 
c . ) stay with me on this one . . . 
ok . 
godzilla can out run torpedoes . 
hank azaria can out run godzilla babies . 
 ( which look more like jurassic park raptors than the jurassic park raptors . ) 
d . ) the u . s . military , upon realization that godzilla has disappeared after running rampant through the city , decides that he " might be hiding in a building . " 
e . ) ( oh yeah , i can go all the way to e . ) godzilla strikes at manhattan . 
manhattan , an island approximately the size of san francisco holds three million people . 
they evactuate to new jersey in about one day . 
no problem . 
f . ) early on , they bait godzilla with fish . 
 ( he likes fish , you know . ) 
the thing is on an island . 
the atlantic ocean is three steps east , but pile a whole bunch of grouper on fifth and 57th . . . oh 
he's gonna come running . 
g . ) you know what ? 
i'll stop with the list now . . . the 
alphabet isn't big enough anyway . 
the dialogue makes me wonder if producer dean devlin had his five year old do a re-write . 
 " the kid is good ! " he must have said . 
maria pitillo is looking to become a name in hollywood by starring in this potential blockbuster . 
bad move , maria . 
acting doesn't get much worse than her turn as broderick's ex-flame . 
matthew broderick is a good actor , but you'd never give him a chance if godzilla were the only film of his you'd seen . 
jean reno needs to pick his american films a bit more carefully . 
at times , godzilla seems to be headed toward a zucker , abrahams , zucker film . 
 ( airplane ! , naked gun . ) 
the jokes are indeed that bad . 
but just when you think the filmmakers are having fun with you , they take themselves seriously . 
how dare they ! 
godzilla would have been better if it had only thrown in visual sight gags and fart jokes . 
at least then we would know we were supposed to laugh . 
each and every character in godzilla is beyond stupid and i was really pulling for the beast to kill more of them . 
emmerich did do one thing , though . 
 ( and i've no idea if it was intentional . ) 
he made me sympathize with godzilla . 
his attackers were so damn dumb that i felt sorry for him being pelted with bullets and missles . 
but what made me feel even sorrier for him was that his famous name will always be attatched to one of the worst films hollywood has ever produced . 

hedwig ( john cameron mitchell ) was born a boy named hansel in east berlin . 
as a teen seeking his " other half , " he reluctantly agrees to a sex change operation in order to marry american g . i . 
luther ( maurice dean wint ) . 
the operation , performed by a hack surgeon , is botched , and the " angry inch " is all that's left . 
now a " she " , hedwig comes to america , is abandoned by luther , forms a rock band and falls for her 17-year old lover/prot ? g ? , tommy , only to be rejected by him later , too . 
she and her band , the angry inch , shadows the now-famous tommy gnosis across the us ( for revenge ? ) , but hedwig is really in search of her lost other half in " hedwig and the angry inch . " 
first time helmer john cameron mitchell , along with composer/lyricist stephen trask , created and starred in their acclaimed off-broadway production that has become the movie . 
and quite a movie it is in its eclectic variety of songs , outrageous costumes , sets and makeup and , especially , a riveting performance by mitchell as the title character . 
mitchell and trask have reinvented the movie musical and couple it with the underlying story of just whom hedwig is and what she is looking for . 
i am , by far , not a big fan of musicals . 
sure , there are exceptions , like bob fosse's " all that jazz " and " cabaret , " but , for the most part , they are just not my cup of tea . 
 " hedwig and the angry inch " is an exception , though , with its combination of humor , wit and a collection of tunes that covers musical styles ranging from " the rocky horror picture show " and meatloaf to david bowie to the sex pistols . 
the original songs , by stephen trask ( also appearing as one of the members of the band the angry inch ) , are full of energy and variety and , even though it's not my kind of music , i found every one entertaining and fun . 
the audience i saw " hedwig " with thought so , too . 
the main attraction to this one-man/woman show is the presence of its star . 
john cameron mitchell gives a solid , sometimes fun , sometimes angry performance as a person searching for self-enlightenment and love . 
as a young boy growing up in east berlin , hansel is abused by his g . i . 
father and raised by his german mother in a tiny flat so small that " mother would make me play in the oven " where he listened to pop music on armed forces radio . 
later , as a young man , he meets luther , another g . i . 
and is swept off of his feet . 
the ensuing angry inch incident comes soon after . 
flash forward to a trailer park in junction city , kansas , and luther is leaving hedwig for another boy . 
frustrated and broke , she takes on baby-sitting and the odd " job " to make ends meet . 
she also forms a band with four korean housewives and the musical talent of hedwig is born . 
she meets , falls for and loses young tommy , who steals her songs and goes off to become a rock sensation . 
jealous and angry , hedwig and her new band begins a campaign to shadow tommy's tours and , with the help of her manager , phyllis stein ( andrea martin ) , is trying get a law suit going against the star for stealing her songs . 
hedwig and the angry inch get gigs , not coincidentally , at a chain of seafood restaurants that just happen to be next to the forums where tommy gnosis is playing . 
things finally come to a head , so to speak , in new york city . 
the popularity of the off-broadway musical and its offshoots have garnered a ready-made audience base for " hedwig . " 
the wit , humor , music and search for identity has great appeal to young adults , but the charismatic presence of mitchell makes this a cut above what it could have been . 
it is this one-man/woman show that casts its spotlight on its " internationally ignored " rock star and mitchell is outstanding in the role . 
there isn't a lot going on with other characters , though there are amusing little sidebars , like hedwig's backup singer/lover , yitzak ( miriam shor ) , deciding to break away from the band to join a polynesian road show of " rent " as a puerto rican drag queen . 
the low budget that the moviemakers have for the production belies the quality of the film . 
attention to details - hedwig's costumes and outrageous " cabaret " -like makeup ; the seedy trailer park setting ; and , the kitschy seafood restaurants - are loads of fun to watch and lend the appropriate air to the proceeds , all on what has to be a beer budget . 
 " hedwig and the angry inch " may not be for everybody , but the energy of the effort , the songs , the imaginative sets and costumes and a fast steady pace make it a pleasure to watch . 
if you're a fan of contemporary , edgy music , it is an even bigger draw . 
i give it a b+ . 

i actually am a fan of the original 1961 or so live-action-disney flick of the same name starring hayley mills twice as a pair of twins , separated at birth by divorcing parents , never to come in contact with the other so the parents never have to meet again . 
and everyone should know how i feel about remakes , especially of films i happen to enjoy ( my fallacy : unless you're going to either capture the same exact spirit of the original or do something different with it or maybe even both , just wrack your brain and come up with a * gasp * new idea ) . 
this remake was not originally on the top of my viewing list , and was actually quite the opposite . 
contemporary live-action-disney films are not one of my favorties , anyway : they're usually unfunny , alienating , and a big fat bore , at least to anyone over the age of 11 and above the iq of 10 . 
this one , however , is shockingly not bad . 
in fact , it's actually good . 
not the original good , but what's great about it is that it doesn't necessarily retread the original or capture the same exact spirit as it does become entertaining for the same exact reasons the original was entertaining . 
because it's cute and innocent fun . 
because it has a pretty killer plot that is endlessly fun to follow along with . 
because the lead star is immensely appealing . 
because the parents are also immensely appealing . 
and ( i'm repeating myself ) because it's cute and innocent fun . 
there's nothing too risque about it , save the plot ( the idea of separating twins and denying them the truth for years is ominously selfish , but that is precisely the point of the movie ) , and it's aimed directly at either kids , adults who want to remember the original , or young adults who want to remember what it was like to be a kid . 
i , personally , am somewhere between the second and third . 
i can vividly remember when my taste in movies wasn't so weird or diverse ( the names godard and kubrick weren't even a glimmer in my right eye back then ) , when i would tune in every sunday night for a couple years to see abc's " wonderful world of disney , " where they'd show you a live-action and/or made-for-tv disney flick an hour per week . 
i can remember my mom taking my sister and i along with all my friends and their mothers to see all the rereleased disney films ( like " lady and the tramp " and " pinnochio " ) . 
and , most sadly , i remember every single christmas , without fail , there were a barage of children's animated half-hour shows , made exclusively for the christmas season , that i wouldn't dare missing . 
i can even remember seeing the made-for-tv " parent trap ii " on tv one night , and after i had seen that one over and over and over again , i saw the original " parent trap . " 
it's more of a late childhood movie , because it deals with the issue of divorce , but it deals with it in a disney-ized version . 
it's playful , and witty , and charming , and if i saw it for the first time right now , having never experienced that part of my childhood , i'd probably dismiss it . 
i'd probably do the same for the new version of the same movie if i hadn't seen the original at such a perfect age . 
watching it , i could remember what fun it was to watch a disney film , and how divorce for me started to get me thinking about the possibilities of my seemingly-perfect parents splitting up , and how it affected my adolescence . 
and also how it brushed that fear off with a smooth stroke , and pointed out that even in the most fucked-up of situations , things could always work out if you , well , manipulate things a bit , at least for the better . 
this new version did that for me , but it's also charming in its own way . 
it has a new cast , a contemporary feel , and , for the first time in awhile for a live-action-disney flick , a tone that isn't corny or condescending , but just right . 
the moments that would otherwise seem corny are actually affecting in a safe kind of way . 
and for the first time since the original film , the kids actually know better than the foolish adults . 
the story is basically classic by now , repeated almost as many times as kurosawa's " the seven samurai " : a pair of twins ( played here by lindsay lohan , just like they were played by hayley mills in the original ) are separated at birth by their divorcing parents . 
one , annie , is sent to live with the mother ( natasha richardson , resembling her mother , vanessa redgrave , more than i had ever noticed ) in london , where she lives with her parents and her devoted , foppish butler ( simon kunz ) , as she works as a swingin' fashion designer . 
she grows up refined and classy , but also with a keen knowledge in sports and poker-playing . 
the other , hallie , is sent to northern california with her father ( dennis quaid ) to live on a vineyard with their pseudo-maid ( lisa ann walter ) , and grows up rugged yet charming . 
they both meet at the same camp , one that annie wants to go to to become more rugged . 
they feud because they look all-too similar , and are thus in tight competition , which results in some nasty pranks , which winds them in seclusion together in a private , out-of-the-way cabin . 
there , they become friends , then learn about eachother . 
once they know everything , they concoct a scheme to switch places so the one can meet the other parent , whom they've only heard of . 
they learn about eachother's lives in detail , they make sure they look alike ( which requires hair cutting and , notoriously , ear-piercing - a scene which is like the kiddie version of the hypodermic needle scene in " pulp fiction " ) , and when the end of summer comes , they switch and hope for the best . 
lindsay lohan doesn't necessarily copy the acting style of hayley mills in the original . 
but she comes off just as appealing as she did once . 
she does , though , add a couple new things : she makes the california twin a little more appealing and the london twin a bit more frank and snobbish than the snotty and proper original , respectively . 
she also adds on an american and british accent to each one , with one faking the other accent throughout , and if you really take notice , you can see that the fake ones' accents aren't exactly perfect . 
she's also incredibly appealing , not merely cute , which is especially notable since this is her first feature film , and we know how notorious child actors are , especially in their first films . 
she makes a great protagonist , and it only helps that the supporting cast is equally appealing . 
dennis quaid , in fact , hasn't been this likable in about a decade - his big dumb smile and near cocky attitude is what has made him a notable actor in the past , not just that he's mr . meg ryan . 
ditto natasha richardson ( except that she just hasn't ever been this likable period ) . 
the two make a winning couple , maybe not so winning as maureen o'hara and the late brian keith in the original , but they still work for this film . 
instead of the bickering that ensued in the original , the film adds another dimension and another angle to their characters that was amiss in the original : during the opening credits , we see glimpses from their courtship on the qe2 , where they fall quickly and madly in love with eachother , and when back together again , the film's more smarmy scenes come off as actually sentimental , but in that great way , not the migraine-inducing way as in many such films . 
this all brings this new " parent trap " to a level of entertainment that hasn't really existed since , well , the original film years ago , still my money the best live-action-disney flick of all time . 
this is because it has a form of intelligence and wit that makes such plot points as an otherwise standard villainous love interest subplot ( a gold-digging sharon stone type , played by elaine hendrix , who's deliciously tormented by the twins later on in the film ) a treat instead of a bore . 
like the original , this film transcends all the crap that it very well could be ( case in point : " it takes two " starring the olsen twins ) because it treats the children as the smart ones , and the adults as the silly ones , not the other way around . 
and because , above everything , it knows exactly how to be charming without biting off more than it can chew . 
however , in comparison with the original , it could be a bit better . 
certain scenes work well , but not nearly as well as they worked in the original . 
i liked the way the parents fought over past dilemnas and then fought over falling in love again better than i liked watching two old flames getting back together over a bottle of wine - somehow , feuding is always more cinematic and pleasing than mere reminscing , a lesson extracted from the howard hawks/cary grant films of yesteryear . 
and as much as this film transcends mere cutedom , compared to the original , this film almost drowns in cutedom . 
the original , though not gritty , was far more stylized and just as suitable for adult audiences as it was for young audiences . 
as such , this remake may never be nearly as great or classic as the original film , but it at least knows how to treat its source material with dignity and respect , and how to create virtually the same effects without bordering on plagerism or petty annoyances . 

although many people have compared this new gangster comedy to the hit hbo drama 'the sopranos , ' analyze this is witty and entertaining enough to be a good movie in it's own right . 
billy crystal plays wiseguy shrink ben sobol , who new 'patient' happens to be gangster boss paul vitti ( de niro . ) 
ben wants nothing to do with vitti , as he's about to get married to laura macnamara ( kudrow ) and having a gangster as a patient wouldn't really help . 
but ben is soon drawn into vitti worlds , and reluctantly helps vitti to sort his life out . 
all done in a comic fashion , of course . 
although never brilliant , analyze this is also never rubbish , which makes for a fun ride . 
billy crystal , who hasn't had a good role since city slickers way back in the early '90's , is given a role that lets him fully exploit his wiseguy act . 
he's pretty funny while he does it , and although his character is a little close to his character in city slickers , he's pretty funny . 
robert de niro is hilarious as vitti , playing it dead straight but coming off as really funny . 
he's a serious gangster unaware that he is a comic gold mine . 
lisa kudrow , barely seen as crystals' estranged wife to be , basically reprises her phoebe role from t . v series friends , which is getting rather tiresome , and doesn't come off well on the screen . 
the supporting cast is apparently made up of the entire cast of casino and goodfellas , and are all funny caricatures , especially vitti's bodyguard jelly ( joe viterelli . ) 
the film genuinely plays like a proper gangster movie , but with laughs instead of hard ass talking . 
it sometimes gets a little bloody for a light hearted film , but it strangely fits in . 
spoofs are made of famous gangster movies , including a nice parody of the godfather . 
the italian tunes playing throughout the soundtrack contribute to the fun . 
there's also some odd plot points : fbi guys appear and suddenly disappear for no apparent reason . 
it is true that analyze this has had a somewhat chequered production history , and perhaps the plot points were expanded in a earlier version of the script . 
unfortunately , this is hollywood , so we will never know . 
harold ramis , best known as egon from ghostbusters , has a deft touch with directing comedy , as shown in the immortal groundhog day , and the less immortal caddyshack . 
all the comic potential in a scene is dug out and presented to the audience . 
the script , written by ramis along with peter tolan and ken lonergan , starts off funny , remains funny for the most of the film , but sadly peters out somewhat during the last twenty minutes where it wrongly enters more serious territory . 
the film is short , however , and just before audience interest is waning the film suddenly goes into a rather rushed and unsatisfying ending and the credits roll . 
analyze this is a good comedy , and is certainly worth watching . 
robert de niro sobbing is reason enough to watch it , even though it does seem forced , or like a parody ( although i think this was intentional . ) 
crystal is his most likeable in years , kudrow is given as little screen time as possible , which is a good thing , and de niro is just awesome . 
it's no goodfellas , and it probably won't be remembered as much as groundhog day , but analyze this is a well done comedy that won't leave you feel cheated . 

steven spielberg's second epic film on world war ii is an unquestioned masterpiece of film . 
spielberg , ever the student on film , has managed to resurrect the war genre by producing one of its grittiest , and most powerful entries . 
he also managed to cast this era's greatest answer to jimmy stewart , tom hanks , who delivers a performance that is nothing short of an astonishing miracle . 
for about 160 out of its 170 minutes , " saving private ryan " is flawless . 
literally . 
the plot is simple enough . 
after the epic d-day invasion ( whose sequences are nothing short of spectacular ) , capt . john miller ( hanks ) and his team are forced to search for a pvt . 
james ryan ( damon ) , whose brothers have all died in battle . 
once they find him , they are to bring him back for immediate discharge so that he can go home . 
accompanying miller are his crew , played with astonishing perfection by a group of character actors that are simply sensational . 
barry pepper , adam goldberg , vin diesel , giovanni ribisi , davies , and burns are the team sent to find one man , and bring him home . 
the battle sequences that bookend the film are extraordinary . 
literally . 
there is nothing in film that has ever been recorded that will prepare you for the sheer onslaught of terrorizing violence in the film's first 20 minutes . 
spielberg films almost the entire movie without music , leaving it up to the characters to generate emotion , and they do to perfection . 
the sequences in france , all of them , beginning with the battle and ending with the battle , are fabulous , especially the dialogues between the men as they walk through the hills and countrysides , trying to save private ryan . 
there are no words i can use to describe the true horror and power of these sequences . 
this is what coppola was looking for in " apocalypse now " , but couldn't create . 
the sheer horror of these sequences all but condemn war . 
the performance by hanks as the leader of this gang is also extraordinary . 
he is head and shoulders above of the rest of the actors in the world , with his comic timing , dramatic flair , his quiet emotion that stirs an entire nation to tears . 
hanks is this country's finest actor , and he proves it here . 
however , spielberg almost destroys his own masterpiece . 
with a chance to make it the one of the greatest films of all time , spielberg creates 10 minutes of purely worthless film . 
the sequence involving army chief-of-stafff george marshall and mrs . ryan is decent , but doesn't hold up to the rest of the film , relying on wartime cliches to power it . 
but that is forgivable . 
what isn't is the bookends of the film , the cemetary sequences . 
the first one is quite good , a decent introduction into the lives of these men . 
the last sequence is atrocious . 
the forced emotion , accompanied by a ridiculous piece of music , is simply horrible compared to the rest of the magical film . 
these flaws are what downgrade " ryan " from the greatest film of our era , to the greatest war film of our era . 
spielberg should have trusted his own material , and he should have trusted hanks to deliver the most chilling line of the movie , to end his masterpiece right there . 
the use of the flag , though patriotic , is in contrast to the movie's theme . 
the power of the bulk of the film , however , is astonishing . 
spielberg has truly made a wondrous work of art , that persists even after first viewing of the film , is extraordinary . 
this is the film of the year . 

first impressions : critically , a close-to-awful film , but money-wise , it has been doing ( and will continue to do ) great . 
a sometimes-funny film that sags and lags and oftentimes gets boring . 
an orginal plot that grows old real fast . 
one of the only 90 minute films that i've gotten bored through . 
men in black has defied the odds . 
when i first saw that the flick was 89 minutes long , i thought maybe that this was a poor attempt at an independence day type film that just ran out of gas . 
however , i now realize that not only did men in black run out of gas , but the film in 90 minutes manages to show off a very original idea ( which summer audiences have embraced ) that becomes old about 25 minutes into the movie . 
tommy lee jones and will smith play two " government " agents who are responsible for keeping order in alien society . 
the ridiculous plot begins when an alien " bug " , played weirdly by vincent d'onofrio , who was so great in full metal jacket , lands on earth to retrieve a galaxy that's somewhere on " orion's belt . " 
anyway , the basic plot revolves around jones and smith to stop this bug from getting the galaxy , or a higher power will blow up the earth . 
the premise is ridulous , but that is not why i didn't like this film . 
i love original plots . 
this one had an original one . 
but director barry sonnenfeld did something to this film that ruined its plot : he made the film drag and also put in unncessary elements in it that are found in romance films . 
whenever i saw d'onofrio's bug stomp and eat people in the film , it got terribly boring after a while . 
while smith's wise-cracks did fill in the gaps , it wasn't enough . 
and also , i cannot believe the screenwriters elected to have a sub-plot where tommy lee jones missed his former lover because as an alien agent , they can't have contact with any humans really . 
and here i see jones , at a satellite computer , watching his lover plant the garden ? 
a sentimental moment in an alien movie ? 
nice try , but i don't think so . 
it doesn't work here . 
it just makes the movie even more ridiculous and even more boring : we don't only have aliens to worry about , but now we have jones's conscience . 
i came into the movie not wanting to see jones's conscience , but wanting to see a real action movie that had lots of aliens in it . 
maybe it's unfair that i partly judged this movie on what my expectations were . 
nevertheless , even though some parts are indeed funny , the plot in this movie grew old and boring -- quick . 

synopsis : cro-magnon ayla loses her mother to an earthquake and escapes certain death by a lion . 
reluctantly rescued by a neanderthal clan who likes to have sex doggy-style , ayla grows up to become a blond , feminist supermodel who challenges the neanderthal patriarchy by throwing rocks and giving birth without a mate . 
comments : allow me to state for the record that i find daryl hannah an appealing presence in movies . 
she proved quite charming as the intelligent astronomer in the romantic comedy roxanne and equally creepy as pris in the sci-fi classic blade runner . 
the clan of the cave bear clearly tries to capitalize on hannah as a selling point : the poster art bears a striking closeup of hannah in tribal paint and the video box prominently features her name in lettering the same size as the title . 
not even her starring role in this turkey , unfortunately , can save it from being an unbelievable exercise in cheese . 
it's so uniquely bad ( a film dealing with prehistoric man that actually tries , and miserably fails , to be serious ) that it's oddly fascinating . 
the ridiculous attempt at drama here leaves the audience somehow transfixed , wanting to see how this dud plays out . 
the clan of the cave bear is based upon a popular novel by jean m . auel . 
to this day , the book possesses a loyal cult following . 
i remember a dear friend of mine had a dog-eared copy of the novel she had read as a child with all the so-called dirty parts blacked out with marker by her grandmother . 
i have never read this book , but i sure hope it's 10 , 000 times better than its film adaptation . 
if not , then i'm at a complete loss to explain its popularity . 
the clan of the cave bear immediately opens with a comically absurd scene . 
a young ayla , looking much like drew barrymore in e . t . , 
tramps about in the woods . 
with her cute little ponytails and fur wrapped about her , the audience's expectations of a convincing portrayal of prehistory are immediately shattered . 
what follows is a laughably choreographed sequence in which an earthquake swallows up ayla's mother ( a blonde with fur pants . . . er , 
leggings ) . 
tearful ayla looks on as the cameraman shakes the camera . . . well , 
as the earthquake slowly recedes . 
a hungry lion becomes interested in her for lunch , but the screaming six-year-old manages to outrun the king of the wild and find a safe haven . 
i won't detail the story any further ; this seems enough to illustrate my point . 
this movie is really stupid . 
it never even gives the audience a chance to suspend their disbelief . 
also , the obvious comparison between the appearance of cro-magnon man in prehistory and the rise of feminism in our century is about as subtle as burning a wonderbra in front of charlton heston . 
the movie doesn't just suggest this message ; it whacks the message into the audience with a two-by-four . 
a blond , gorgeous woman challenges the social laws of a bunch of people in gaudy brown wigs . 
she's of the " new people " ; they're of the " old people " with " the memories . " 
yep . 
we get it . 
we get it . 
the clan of the cave bear apparently received an academy award nomination for best make-up , which surprises me . 
the movie depends upon a lot of make-up obviously , but much of it is unconvincing . 
as stated before , daryl hannah is daryl hannah here ; she looks like she just stepped out of the shower all the time . 
the rest of the characters have dark make-up of some sort smeared over them to look like dirt . 
the face-painting that's occasionally seen is perhaps the only notable work here in my mind . 
this movie also suffers from its new age trappings . 
maybe the music sounded a lot more fresh or original during 1985 , but now it sounds dated and cliched , like poorly conceived elevator music . 
add to this the film's faux-mysticism , including spirit animals and dream visions , and a narrator who sounds like a psychic you'd expect to hear on a 1-900 number , and you get a movie that has serious problems being serious . 
the clan of the cave bear is rated r , though it's probably one of the most inoffensive offensive films i've seen in quite a while . 
it contains several scenes of sex sans nudity . 
the violence mostly consists of hunting scenes . 
the funniest moment of the movie occurs when a neanderthal in love with ayla attempts to rescue her from a ferocious bear . 
the bear bites his head off and the audience sees it rolling about . 
although this may sound gratuitous , i'm sure , it's so cheesy that it probably won't bother most people . 
the clan of the cave bear is a bad movie . 
however , as i wrote at the beginning of this review , it does have the distinction of originality . 
typically when i think of bottom-of-the-barrel films dealing with early man , fantasy movies involving dinosaurs ( who did not exist at the same time as man ) and raquel welch come to mind . 
the clan of the cave bear tries so hard to be serious that , though it's so bad , the audience is still interested by the unique setting and characters of the movie ( which is why i awarded this turkey two stars ) . 
i have to think that fans of the book would be disappointed with this film version ; however , i'm only basing this observation on the fact that the book is almost invariably better than the movie . 
i shudder to think that it could be otherwise . . . 

in the year 2029 , captain leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , " boogie nights " ) is training 'his' chimp pericles to pilot a pod from the usaf oberon space station . 
when an electromagnetic storm is encountered and pericles' pod is lost , davidson sets out unauthorized and lands thousands of years in the future on the " planet of the apes . " 
maybe if 20th century fox had set the proverbial 100 chimps in front of typewriters they would have gotten a better results than this adaptation of the pierre boulle novel by william broyles jr . ( " cast away " ) , and lawrence konner & mark d . rosenthal ( " mighty joe young " ) . 
director tim burton's unique look and style are nowhere to be found in this silly , pointless remake . 
davidson no sooner lands than he finds himself being swarmed by savages running in terror , whom he wisely joins . 
however , he's rounded up with the lot of them by the apes which rule this plant and handed over to slave trader limbo ( paul giamatti , " duets " ) . 
ari ( helena bonham carter , " fight club " ) , daughter of the illustrious senator sandar ( david warner , " titanic " ) and simian bleeding heart , believes humans should live with apes on equal standing , an unpopular notion . 
she takes a liking to leo , who she deems 'unusual . ' 
general thade ( tim roth , " lucky numbers " ) is of the opposite opinion , wishing for declaration of martial law that will allow him to annihilate the race . 
he's sweet on ari . 
it's relatively easy to see where this 'new' story is going from the onset , yet its ultimate revelation has gaping logic holes . 
the much ballyhooed 'surprise' ending is a nonsensical let down . 
an attempt at a love triangle , conveyed by ari and the human daena ( estella warren , " driven " ) giving each other 'back off' looks over leo , fails because he never develops a relationship with either of them . 
the lone sex scene is some hilarious foreplay between elder orangutan senator nado ( glenn shadix ) and his trophy wife nova ( burton's squeeze , lisa marie ) . 
guffaws will also likely greet charlton heston's cameo as thade's father , the one ape harboring a firearm ( ! ) who sputters some very familiar lines before dying . 
the only real success of the 2001 " planet of the apes " is rick baker's makeup , and even that's an iffy affair . 
no attempt was made to change the human whiteness of the actors' eyes , a real distraction amidst some otherwise impressive work . 
roth , warner and michael clarke duncan ( as thade's right hand man attar ) are given the most impressive makeovers . 
giamatti looks more like a skull than an ape and the female apes are too humanized to be given sexual appeal . 
tim roth delivers the most impressive acting job by getting the body language right - his nasty chimpanzee character leaps about , most spectacularly when mounting his steed , but even's he's undone by some obvious wire work . 
bonham carter delivers a goodly range of emotion from behind a stiff prosthetic , but is undone in turn by the silliness of the writing . 
most of the film has a set bound look which no amount of mist can cover . 
the ape's city resembles a dank complex of tree houses . 
the apes' military costumes ( colleen atwood , " sleepy hollow " ) as well as their field tents are reminiscent of eiko ishioka's work on coppola's " dracula . " 
that oriental flavor is also found in danny elfman's tribal , percussive score . 
 " planet of the apes " was the last blockbuster hope for the summer of 2001 , a dismal movie season that's going to the dogs . 

not too many people know who james whale is , but it's a safe bet that a good chunk of them have seen his movies . 
if we are to believe the semi- biographical gods and monsters , whale would have wanted it to be that way . 
this is an insightful , haunting exploration of the last days of the frankenstein and bride of frankenstein director , and it is notable for introducing one of the first complicated gay characters in a hollywood movie . 
gods and monsters has no interest in being a biopic of whale's life because it tracks only the final few days of his life , and it's probably a better movie for it . 
it's focus is on whale's ( ian mckellen ) untraditional and deceptive lust for heterosexual gardener clayton boone ( brendan fraser ) . 
it begins with whale ( a fairly talented artist , aside from being a director ) asking boone to " sit for him , " ( pose for a portrait ) . 
at first , boone doesn't realize that whale is gay and grows fascinated with the old man . 
when he does discover whale's sexual orientation from his dedicated and protective maid ( lynn redgrave ) , he is frightened , refusing to sit for the guy . 
but he comes back , only to storm out again , disgusted with whale's " locker room talk . " 
boone returns yet another time , after whale promises to tone down the aforementioned " locker room talk , " and finds their platonic relationship to be strengthening . 
meanwhile , jimmy himself is suffering from hallucinations and mental attacks as a result of his stroke not long ago . 
his ailment leads to desperation and depression , which build to the point where he is forced to ask boone for an incredulously big favor . 
what is perhaps most sensational about gods and monsters is brendan fraser's bravura performance ; up until seeing this film i intensely disliked the young actor because of his tendency to ruin the movies he is in ( blast from the past , for example ) . 
i was surprised how expressive an actor he proved himself to be here . 
this is impressive because his character's dialogue is minimal , with mckellan doing most of the talking . 
that requires fraser to act through body language ; a difficult skill to master , but something he proves capable of doing well . 
this is not to ignore mckellan's oscar nominated turn . 
he earned that nomination with his touching performance here ( although , at the risk of sounding like a philistine , i would have chosen his performance as the nazi in apt pupil for the nomination ) ; an understated , compelling gem . 
whale dreaded being remembered solely for his work in the hollywood horror genre , and he thought hollywood to be the equivalent of a battlefield . 
he rejoiced in being free from it , only reluctantly going to receptions with fellow movie people . 
in the end , perhaps , it is what killed him : the memories of hollywood and war blending together to form a living nightmare . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 

attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone . 
should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic . 
the film will work just as well as a silent movie . 
chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing . 
first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth . 
there isn't one of these characters worth caring about . 
the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . " 
among others , the movie features : ben affleck , casey affleck , david chappelle , janeane garofalo , gaby hoffmann , catherine kellner , courtney love , jay mohr , martha plimpton , christina ricci and paul rudd . 
and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say . 
it's new year's eve in 1981 , and monica ( martha plimpton ) is preparing her big party . 
structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars . 
monica's apartment is in " noho , " an area that one of the guests describes as " so cool , all of the poor people live there . " 
typical of the shallow couples in the movie are kevin ( paul rudd ) and his friend and would-be sexual partner lucy ( courtney love ) . 
they argue about whether lucy is a slut or not since she sleeps with everyone , except him , of course . 
she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story . 
the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday . 
 " cigarettes are a shield against emotional interaction with other people , " kevin later tells lucy in a snippet of dialog that sounds profound only outside the context of the movie . 
another character , played by jay mohr , has a problem with his sexual triumphs . 
every woman he beds falls deeply in love with him by the next morning . 
when his latest conquest tells him of her affection for him , his response is " i like a lot of people . " 
as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds . 
some have passed out early from alcohol abuse and remember little , while others actually have some clue as to what happened . 
the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie . 
200 cigarettes runs 1 : 40 . 
it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 

the law of crowd pleasing romantic movies states that the two leads must end up together by film's end . 
if you're not familiar with this law , then maybe you've seen the trailer for this film which shows that the two leads are together by film's end . 
now if you're a regular reader of mine , you've heard me say this countless times : you know how drive me crazy is going to end , but is the journey to get to that ending worth it ? 
no , it definitely is not . 
melissa joan hart ( from abc's " sabrina , the teenage witch " ) likes a hunky stud on the basketball team . 
adrien grenier is her grungy neighbor who's just broken up with his activist girlfriend . 
apparently he wants to make his ex-girlfriend jealous enough to take him back , and she wants someone to take her to the big year end dance . 
so the two pretend to date for some reason , but only after hart gives grenier a bath to turn him into a hunky stud . 
will grenier like his new popularity and turn on his friends ? 
will this crazy scheme work ? 
do i care ? 
the teen comedy resurgence of late has been surprisingly good in terms of comedy . 
what makes movies like can't hardly wait and 10 things i hate about you work ( and to a lesser extent , she's all that and never been kissed ) is because the writers of those films seem to realize that high school is a joke and write their scripts accordingly . 
i don't know what the writer's intention was with drive me crazy . 
there was some smart comedy in those films to make the obvious endings worth getting to . 
here there's nothing . . . 
just teens whining about who's going to take them to the big dance . 
do me a favor kids , go get a job or something . . . 
just shut the hell up . 
in all honesty , the best part of this film is the end credits . 
now normally when i say that it's followed with the joke " . . . because the movie is finally over . " 
in this case though the end credits really are the most entertaining part of the film . 
after the obligatory second playing of britney spears' titular song , there's a quick commercial jingle for a burger joint the kids in the film hang out in and a brief rendition of the school song for their high school . 
nothing great , but more entertaining than anything in the 90 minutes which preceded them . 
sci-fi fans take note : there are brief appearances from stephen collins ( star trek : the motion picture ) and faye grant ( the tv miniseries " v " and " v : the final battle " ) . 
[pg-13] 

a welcome cinematic trend over the past couple of years has been to make the works of shakespeare more accessible to the younger audiences who are the vast majority of moviegoers by contemporizing the bard and altering the settings to familiar surroundings . 
a prime example of this is 1999's 10 things i hate about you , which was basically the taming of the shrew in a high school . 
less successful was last year's adaptation of hamlet with ethan hawke as the heir apparent of the denmark corp . here the setting was the corporate world of new york . 
now comes o , a faithful retelling of one of the most tragic of shakespeare's tragedies . 
like 10 things i hate about you , the stage is a high school - a private prep school where odin james ( mekhi phifer ) is the on-court general , the basketball team's standout player . 
julia stiles , featured in 10 things i hate about you as well as performing ophelia in hawke's hamlet , plays desi brable , odin's girlfriend , whose father also happens to be dean of the institution . 
josh hartnett ( pearl harbor ) is on hand for the villainy , playing the scheming hugo , who sets the tragic wheels in motion . 
o was actually filmed a couple of years ago , but was shelved because of the columbine high school tragedy . 
the movie , directed by tim blake nelson - best known for his co-starring role in o brother , where art thou ? 
- and written by brad kaaya , is very grim . 
an air of tragedy weighs it down from the opening scene to the closing credits . 
and that is how it should be . 
of all of shakespeare's tragedies , othello is the most harrowing , not because of any body count , but because of the psychological havoc wreaked by iago , whose motivation in the sheer pleasure of his treachery . 
kaaya's profane-filled script - after all , these are high school kids - does offer hugo a subtle motive of sorts . 
the young man considers himself the basketball team's prime utility man who does a little bit of everything - pass , shoot , rebound - but is constantly in the shadow of odin . 
plus his father , the team's coach - played with a ferocious intensity by martin sheen - showers more love and concern on his star player than on his own flesh and blood . 
the script follows the familiar lines of the classic . 
hugo begins dropping hints to odin concerning desi's fidelity , eroding the star's confidence in those he considers closest to him , affecting both his relationships and his game . 
it all ends in blood , of course , which is why the movie was originally shelved . 
the performances in o vary . 
phifer is at first cocky and self-assured , emotions he handles with ease . 
he also does quite well displaying odin's darker side ; his defensive sensitivity about being the only black at the institution , his growing distrust of those he loved , his rage and the erosion of his belief system . 
hartnett is appropriately cool and machiavellian as he weaves his deadly web of lies and deceit , turning friend against friend , and lover against lover . 
stiles seems a bit stilted , but occasionally also rises to the occasion , moving from adoration to confusion to fear of her young knight . 
the film does contain a few missteps : a subplot involving hugo's theft of the school mascot is left hanging . 
also desi's actions concerning michael ( andrew keegan ) , odin's former teammate and best friend who was kicked off the team because of one of hugo's machinations , is puzzling . 
why she would continually be seen with michael - however innocent the circumstances - when she knows her man suspects the two of cheating behind his back . 
it is irrational . 
but these are minor carpings . 
overall , o is a stylish and faithful adaptation . 
if nothing else , it may encourage some people to read the original text , and that will counterbalance the severity of this feature . 

 " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics . 
and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it . 
the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) . 
he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do . 
as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama . 
there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate . 
so why did i enjoy it so much ? 
for one thing , the cast is great . 
kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role . 
we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort . 
yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be . 
and he never broods . 
the rest of the cast is equally impressive . 
john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian . 
but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter . 
by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character . 
another nice touch is the music . 
we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all . 
the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun . 
during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing . 
of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic . 
anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise . 
don't let the premise prevent you from watching it . 
it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 

`we run tings . 
tings don't run we . ' 
-sound advice from capone ( paul campbell ) to his squaddie ( or partner ) , floyd ( winston bell ) . 
jamaican film , shot entirely on video , featuring a standard cop movie plot mixed with a dash of john woo-styled brotherhood morals ( and a little gunplay ) . 
capone , a tough as nails super cop , gets a transfer back to his hometown of kingston after successfully taking down some gangsters that have broken into his home ( while he was with his lady ) and killed his partner in front of him . 
when he arrives , he discovers that the ghetto where he grew up has gotten worse , thanks mainly to the crime boss wonie ( jamaican film veteran carl bradshaw ) , so named because his left hand has been amputated and replaced by a grasping hook ) . 
capone discovers that wonie has been smuggling guns inside shipments of charity supplies for the area churches and , much to his disappointment , also finds out his childhood friend ratty ( mark danvers ) has been helping him . 
torn between doing his job and protecting his best friend , capone must make some hard decisions in order to make things right again . 
directed deftly by first time jamaican filmmaker chris browne ( assistant director for such american films as how stella got her groove back and instinct ) , one hardly notices the film was shot on video after a while . 
shots are handled so efficiently that they quickly take on the nuances of the aforementioned john woo films , although the action isn't as hyperkinetic as most of woo's films are . 
the action scenes are handled with a kind of flair though , and eventually begin to take on a life of their own ( beyond the hong kong films that they are obviously patterned after ) . 
the make-up effects are particularly good in these scenes as well , with flawless squib work on display from the effects team . 
the cast is superb and listening to their dialogue , spoken with thick jamaican accents ( half of which have to be subtitled because of their extensive use of slang ) , just adds to the interest . 
paul campbell , as the `loose cannon' capone , essays his role perfectly , displaying the right amount of menace and compassion at the right times . 
mark danvers evokes sympathy as ratty , the part-time gun smuggler who is also trying to help the community by building football fields and organizing block parties to bring people together . 
unfortunately , carl bradshaw is given the least to do and his character as the crime boss seems ineffective ( largely because his underlings seem to run all over him ) , but then again , that could be the way his character was intended to be portrayed . 
the music in the film is composed of all reggae songs , and the soundtrack was produced by grammy award winning artists , sly and robbie ( who have worked with the likes of the rolling stones , maxi priest , bob dylan , james brown , grace jones , herbie hancock , bootsy collins , and carly simon among others ) . 
the end credit song , `we run tings' , by the group red dragon , is pretty decent and carries on the theme of the movie established early on by the quote that opens this review . 
oddly enough , desmond ballentine ( who plays the character deportee ) is well known as a pioneer in the realm of `gangsta' reggae as the performer ninjaman , and he doesn't contribute a single song to the film ( that i could see ) , which is virtually unheard of here in the us . 
at the time of this writing , third world cop has been put into limited theatrical release in the us , coming off of a six-month box-office breaking run in jamaica , where it holds the position as highest grossing film of all time ( bringing in $21 million in jamaica , which is roughly $500 , 000 us ) . 
palm pictures ( the company that released the offbeat , but entertaining six-string samurai ) is the company releasing the film and considering that their main focus is the dvd market , i can imagine that a disc will be available once the film has left theaters . 
chris blackwell , founder of palm pictures , was also involved in the production of another jamaican box-office smash in 1981 entitled countryman , so i'd say he has a pretty good track record . 
overall , third world cop is a pretty entertaining homage to the films of john woo , ringo lam , tsui hark , and many other action films by directors from hong kong . 
if action films are your thing and you don't mind intermittent subtitles , then you can't go wrong with this film . 
the performances and the story are solid ( if only a little cliched ) and the action is tight . 
i'm not sure what the other jamaican films released in that country are like , but apparently third world cop's honors are well deserved . 

1992's alien3 marked not only the death ( by suicide ) of its popular protagonist , ellen ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , but , in many ways , the alien franchise itself--box office receipts were anemic , thanks to poor audience word of mouth ; and the critics who rallied around the first two installments , 1979's alien and 1986's aliens , savaged david fincher's slog of a sendoff ( myself included ) . 
hence , weaver , director jean-pierre jeunet , and the others behind alien resurrection faced a two-fold challenge--not only somehow resurrect ripley , but also rescue this once-profitable series from the scrap heap . 
despite the odds , they have succeeded , even if the entertaining new installment does not measure up to the excellent first two . 
writer joss whedon devises a quick , easy , and painless answer to the dead ripley problem--clone her , which is what shady military scientists do using some blood left behind on fiorina 161 , the prison planet of the third film . 
that done , the _real_ challenge presents itself--what do with her . 
alien introduced ripley as smart and resourceful ; aliens simultaneously toughened her up and made her more vulnerable , exploring her maternal side ; alien3 saw her undergoing the seven stages of death . 
what could be next ? 
whedon comes up with a clever spin : since the original ripley died while impregnated with an alien queen , the blood used for the clone is also " infected " with alien dna . 
so the new ripley is , indeed , new--a human/alien hybrid blessed with heightened instincts and strength , a psychic bond with the deadly species , and a more predatory attitude . 
unfortunately , that is where alien resurrection's clever streak in writing stops . 
the alien series is known for having stronger stories than most creature features . 
but the story in resurrection is more of an afterthought . 
the movie begins with a plot involving some military types attempting to train aliens to do their bidding , but once the creatures break free , it is once again ripley and a ragtag crew ( this time a bunch of interstellar smugglers , including tough waif call , played by a game winona ryder ) trying to exterminate them . 
and the alien ripley scenario is ultimately not exploited to its full potential ; i would have liked deeper exploration into the quandary of becoming one of the species she has spent her entire life trying to destroy . 
while the settling into tried-and-true formula is a little disconcerting , the formula is tried-and-true for a reason , and jeunet tackles the proceedings with giddy abandon . 
the alien , after all these years , is still terrifying , and a new breed that is introduced is no less so . 
the violence is appropriately grisly and extreme , and the action set pieces are suspenseful and exciting , most notably an extended underwater sequence . 
the film is absolutely mesmerizing visually , thanks to the solid work done by production designer nigel phelps and cinematographer darius khondji . 
as technically adept as jeunet's direction is , perhaps his ( and , for that matter , whedon's ) greatest contribution is the infusion of humor into this notably downbeat and serious series . 
a sense of humor may seem to go against everything this horror show stands for , but the self-awareness of the excess just adds to the fun . 
no , alien resurrection is not the great film that ridley scott's alien or the even greater film that james cameron's aliens was . 
but after the dauntingly slow gloom and doom of fincher's alien3 , jeunet's resurrection is a welcome return to its roots as a wild , reckless thrill ride . 
that is what made the alien series so popular in the first place , and that is what will keep the series popular in any future installments . 

i guess that if a very wild bachelor party had gone really bad , there would be broken furniture , traces of smack and cocaine on the floor , and a dead prostitute in the bathroom . 
i guess that if a movie had also gone really bad , there might be the same elements present . 
coincidence ? 
poor kyle ( a meek looking jon favreau ) . . . he is about to marry his radiant fiancee , laura ( cameron diaz ) . 
but before he exchanges his vows , he embarks to las vegas with his friends for one last blowout . 
but this bachelor party has gone about as bad as it could possibly get . 
the prostitute has met a horrible , though accidental death , and drugs are everywhere . 
the five friends agree that there is enough bad evidence here that will send them to jail for a very long time . 
a surprisingly calm robert boyd ( christian slater ) , who looks like he was groomed to make nefarious decisions , ponders their dilemma for a few minutes before deciding that the best thing to do is to bury the body in the desert where she'll never be found . 
although they stomach the gruesome deed of getting rid of the body ( which also disturbingly involves dismantling the body using power saws in order to stuff it into suitcases ) , when they return from their trip , guilt and paranoia begins to set in which slowly consumes some of the five friends . 
one is adam ( daniel stern ) he grows increasingly agitated . 
whenever people look at his van or whenever a cop glances his way , his blood pressure increases . 
or that just may be because of his dysfunctional family . 
another is michael , who was actually responsible for her death . 
he tries to bury his feelings , but the burden of guilt begins to affect his judgment as well . 
boyd is the ? doer' of the group . 
seemingly suffering from a long psychosis , when he feels as if his secret is about to be exposed , he is apt to take extreme measures to cover up his tracks . 
kyle just hopes that his wedding will live up to laura's demanding expectations . 
then , there's moore ( leland orser ) who speaks 5 lines and walks around with a puzzled look on his face . 
the problem with this reprehensible movie is that it wants to be a cruel comedy , but it presents things in a manner that just aren't funny . 
drugs , mutilation , and killing your own friends isn't something to be laughed at . 
as a straight psychological drama , i could see how it might have worked , as each one tried to maneuver and overcome the weight of their own guilt in their own sometimes-sick ways . 
but this movie insults us by assuming that we could simply discard our values for 2 hours . 
if you do like this movie , i don't think that i want to know you . 
i did find slater a convincing leader who sways his friends to choose not the right thing but the ? smart play . ' 
and diaz adds some brightness to this film as a wedding-needing fiancee . 
but her talents are essentially wasted here . 
it's obvious that the film maker is trying to strike a certain tone . 
but the way that he chooses to do it is tasteless . 
do not make a very bad decision by seeing this film . 

it's no secret in the motion picture industry that the relationship between a script and the actors involved often makes or breaks a movie at the box office . 
a poorly-written script can be bested by a superb acting corps , and a well-written piece can be mangled by a group of amateurs . 
in directing his latest action-comedy , director brett ratner ( money talks ) takes a relatively mediocre piece of standup comedy and turns it into a funny as all get-out buddy cop movie . 
in addition , rush hour serves as a first-class example of directing a movie with conservative attitude - a feature that is sure to draw in crowds of all types . 
the two lead names share equal screen time here , mostly because they spend it together . 
jackie chan , in his first completely american production , makes an impressive debut by mixing dialogue with martial arts . 
the other martial arts flick from a few weeks ago , knock off , stands no chance against the content of this one . 
chan manages to make every fight scene exude grace and poise , and there's no doubt that a large percentage of video sales for this movie will come from viewers who couldn't believe their eyes the first time . 
chris tucker , on the opposite side , relates a hilarious comedic approach which smoothes out the rough edges to chan's performance . 
he works perfectly with the script , and it's quite likely he lent scribe jim kouf a hand with some of his lines . 
almost essential to the action genre , the plot is nonexistent . 
we're quickly introduced to detective james carter ( tucker ) is a maverick officer for the lapd . 
cut forward to another scene where the daughter ( julia hsu ) of the american chinese consul ( tzi ma ) is kidnapped by a gang of swarthy characters . 
the fbi is quick to the rescue , but the consul insists that one of his men , detective inspector lee ( chan ) , be brought on the case to help . 
the fbi resists , but then requests that lapd send a man over to babysit the chinese detective . 
it's here that carter and lee hook up , and the two unwittingly solve the case while the fbi rushes in to back them up . 
rattner does a fine job of going the extra mile to get his movie to move a step up , but it doesn't quite reach the top tier of action-comedies like last year's grosse pointe blank . 
there are moments where the plot strays too far off the straight line it sticks almost exclusively to , and if not for the comedic interactions between tucker and chan , this might be a major drawback . 
also , some supporting characters are almost entirely along for the ride , and others are there simply to look menacing . 
however , none gives a standoffish performance and they mostly mesh into the background . 
almost every member of the cast displays some reservation at one point or another - whether it's tucker's toned-down routine or chan's tight rein on his action sequences - and that contributes greatly to this being a watchable movie for all types . 
a recommendable visit to the theater , indeed . 

starring ben stiller , elizabeth hurley , maria bello , janeane garofalo screenplay by david veloz , based on the novel by jerry stahl directed by david veloz 
permanent midnight is a pretty bad movie , though it took me a few days to conclude this . 
the film is more masturbatory than bleak , with its main character intent on confounding us with his stupidity . 
 ( he has a $6000 a week drug habit . ) 
ultimately , as adapted by veloz , jerry stahl comes off as one of those playground braggarts who chainsmokes at the age of twelve ; you are less mystified by his self-destructive nature than bored into a stupor yourself . 
ben stiller plays stahl , a young author who arrives in l . a . with ambition and a nasty drug habit . 
he eventually gets a gig for $5000/week writing for a sitcom called mr . chompers ( a thinly veiled stand-in for " alf " : chompers looks just like alf except he's blue ) , marries a producer ( hurley ) so she can get a green card , and hooks up with a spanish mother ( liz torres ) , who shoots heroin with him in the afternoons . 
insert proverbial downward spiral here . 
permanent midnight is structured mostly as a flashback , with recovering addict bello meeting stiller ( at a fastfood restaurant , where stiller works the drive-thru as part of rehab ) , taking him back to a hotel , and between bouts of serious screwing , listening to his life story . 
i've spent the last week trying to figure out why stiller never seemed to find the frighteningly gorgeous hurley attractive-worse , i've been trying to figure out why hurley did find stiller attractive . 
as stahl , stiller displays none of the charm or wit one would expect ( post-there's something about mary ) of either the actor or a comedy writer . 
what separates stahl from the hundreds of other hollywood punk-junkies , it seems , is that stahl wrote a book about his idiocy . 
watch stahl shoot heroin next to a baby ! 
watch stahl spoil numerous pitch meetings with smack-fueled babble ! 
stiller gives a technically flawless performance : the film could double as a documentary on how to be a junkie . 
but permanent midnight is mostly soulless . 
when the movie poses the question will stahl be saved ? 
and then answers it in the form of bello's character ( basically a shrink in black panties ) , could a person care less ? 
in the film version of his autobiography of the same name , stahl doesn't need saving , he needs someone who will sit there and listen to him go on about himself . 
if you learn anything about the other characters in this movie , it's that they are the most incredibly tolerant hollywood-types known to man . 
 ( stahl also seems to be the only person at schmooze parties doing drugs . 
is this hollywood . . . california ? ) 
i learned very little about the entertainment business from permanent midnight and a whole lot about an egotistical lunkhead . 
of course you know that stahl triumphed because he lived to talk about his problems . 
so , basically , his drug habit got him a book deal , a movie based on his life , and now he's apparently collaborating with stiller on future projects . 
so much for the moral of that story . 
temporary midnight is more like it . 
-bill chambers ; september , 1998 

seen december 2 , 1997 at 6 : 50 p . m . at the glenwood movieplex cinemas ( oneida , ny ) , theater #3 , by myself for free ( free pass ) . 
[theater rating : * * * : good seats , sound , and picture] 
there are many philosophies as to why we are so fascinated with cartoons . 
they provide a method of total escapism in which anything will work within their context , from the outrageous slapstick of looney tunes to the intensity of japanimation . 
watching " flubber " really clinched this idea for me , because it's just a live action cartoon that presents itself as a regular comedy . 
it proves how painfully unfunny all those gags and slapstick would be in reality , and how important it is to actually have a story . 
the film wastes no time in establishing its lighthearted , cartoony atmosphere . 
we meet medfield college chemistry professor phillip brainard ( williams ) , the typical , supposedly likable mad scientist . 
within the first 10 minutes we get at least a half dozen jokes about how forgetful he is . 
phillip's memory loss seems less like a cartoony gag and more like a real case of alzhiemer's disease - isn't this rather lowbrow comedy ? 
he starts teaching chemistry after walking in on a nude figure drawing class ( an inappropriate joke for a kids' movie if i ever saw one ) . 
we learn he has stood his up fiancee , sara ( harden ) , twice at the altar simply because he's forgotten . 
sara claims to love him , but says if he forgets the wedding again she'll stop loving him ( a sign of childish attitude the film denies it has ) . 
but even cartoons must have conflicts to resolve , and it's no surprise the major conflicts here are related . 
christopher mcdonald does and even worse version of his usual villain shtick as wilson croft , a scientist who not only wants to steal phillip's ideas , but his woman too . 
what's worse is that sara actually seems interested in him ! 
wilson works for a rival college that wants to buy out medfield , which is going broke , unless phillip can invent something to save the day . 
one of the first rules of filmmaking is to make sure the title has something to do with the film . 
the flubber is played for gags after it is introduced , but is all but forgotten about thereafter . 
it's obvious phillip is going to accidentally invent flubber , a flying rubber compound that yields tremendous energy , and the promotions make the flubber look realistic and funny . 
unfortunately , the flubber , like all the special effects in this film , looks very fake and unconvincing . 
flubber also seems to have intelligence and a personality , and by the time it performs a song and dance routine , you give up wondering how life could spontaneously come to an inanimate object . 
most of the film wanders aimlessly as it relies on the flubber to make for the comedy ( since phillip's absent-mindedness is forgotten about ) and somehow push the story along . 
but it's clear how weak this premise is from the get-go and the film just gets worse . 
all the jokes involve people getting hit by fast-moving , flubber-powered objects including : bowling balls ; flying cars that don't fly well ; and a basketball team capable of jumping 100 feet into the air . 
it's all presented with complete logic , and no one believes flubber exists even when they see it with their own eyes . 
during the basketball scene , the coach for the rival team actually says , " i think they might be cheating , " to which the referee replies , " there's no rules about jumping too high . " 
 " predictable " doesn't begin to describe the motions the film goes through , especially after the halfway point . 
and it's not how terribly contrived the plot is , it's the way it's broken down scene-by-scene , with absolutely no transition . 
not only that , but all the actors here , especially williams , seem bored to tears . 
i'd say 80 percent of all the scenes were shot with a bluescreen , so it's almost forgivable when you realize they're talking to nothing and interacting with nothing . 
it's safe to say everything that could be bad about " flubber " is . 
the only original element the film has is the world's first romance between a machine and a human . 
but this aspect is quite twisted if you think about it , and , like the rest of the film , you won't . 

catherine deane ( jennifer lopez ) is a psychologist who has been hired to participate in a project where she can enter the minds of comatose victims and try to interact with their subconscious in an attempt to wake them up . 
she has been experiencing moderate success with a young boy in a coma , but the boy's parents aren't happy with the apparent lack of progress and the toll of her job is having adverse affects on her regular life . 
as if trying to assure the boy's parents wasn't hard enough on her , a new development arises that furthers the strain on deane's mental faculties . 
a vicious serial killer named carl stargher ( vincent d'onofrio ) has been kidnapping women , locking them in an automated cell that drowns them slowly in a matter of days , then soaking the corpses in bleach to turn them into life-sized dolls . 
just after kidnapping his latest victim and locking her in the cell , stargher has a traumatic experience that triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain and causes him to sink in an eternal catatonia . 
the police , led by fbi agent peter novak ( vince vaughn ) are able to locate stargher by some clues he left while dumping his previous victim's body , but they feel all hope is lost for his current victim due to his vegetative state . 
in a last ditch attempt , they ask deane and the scientists that created the project to undergo the frightening task of entering stargher's mind to try and find the location of the victim locked in the deadly cell . . . 
a cell which will completely fill with water in the next 40 hours ! 
initial reports about this film described it as a cross between the silence of the lambs and the matrix . 
while it does share some characteristics with both films ( particularly the first forty minutes , which seem almost like a condensed version of lambs ) , the cell also seems to contain elements of dreamscape and brainstorm . 
the buzz around this project is that first-time feature film director tarsem singh ( who won many awards for his video of r . e . m . 's " losing my religion " ) wanted a script that he could fashion images out of instead of a cohesive story , and a good portion of this film supports that theory . 
despite the borrowed elements from the aforementioned films and a script that contains several logically questionable moments , the cell does feature some remarkable imagery . 
all of the sequences where we delve into someone's mind are incredibly beautiful ( including the dank mind of stargher , whose thoughts are reminiscent of an h . r . giger painting come to life mixed with a tool music video ) , proving that singh is as adept at filming strange and wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to believe . 
the first sequence that takes place in stargher's mind is by far the best , featuring one of the most ingenious traps i've ever seen in a film ( involving a horse , which no one seeing this film will probably forget ) , a zoo-like display of stargher's victims which are animated like marionettes , and stargher himself in a giant purple cape that spans the walls of his mental throne room . 
if the film had continued within this dirty monstrous world i would have deemed the film brilliant , but alas , the sequences only become more silly as they go along ( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in the film ) . 
the cast is basically just an excuse for there to be some moderate plot semblance during the parade of images , but at least vincent d'onofrio turns in his usual bizarre and psychotic performance ( magnified by ten , thanks to the environment in which the film has been placed ) . 
in my opinion , d'onofrio was one of the best creepy actors i have ever seen in a film , but his film choices as of late have been so completely awful ( i . e . - 
the newton boys , feeling minnesota , the thirteenth floor , and the velocity of gary ) that i have begun to rethink my initial assessment of him . 
the character of stargher is an excellent role for him though , and will probably lead to a bit of typecasting for him . 
detractors of violence and disturbing images will want to stay far away from this film , as it contains heavy doses of both . 
besides the nipple ring removal i mention above , there is also stargher's penchant for hanging suspended off of the floor by the rings that pierce his back and legs ( prior to his catatonia and capture ) which will have audiences recoiling . 
a sequence where catherine enters stargher's mind and finds him recreating the disemboweling of his first victim is also pretty disquieting . 
one moment also features a character having his intestines slowly removed from his body by an old fashioned hand cranked spit-like device . 
as a narrative film , the cell is sorely lacking . 
as a collection of images though , the cell is extremely well done . 
although the latter sequences in the film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the first half , singh has done what he supposedly set out to do : make a film solely for the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together . 
unfortunately , a well-written script should have been considered too , because without it the cell just seems like any other music video we could see on mtv ( provided , of course , that mtv allowed for the use of graphic violence and language in music videos ) . 

mpaa : not rated ( though i feel it would likely be pg , for martial-arts violence . ) 
with three movies already ( re ) released theatrically in america , and at least three more on their way , jackie chan is one of the newest " hot properties " in action adventure stardom , and it's just about time . 
for over twenty-five years , jackie's been starring in martial arts and action movies in hong kong , thrilling audiences with both an incredible grasp of acrobatics and martial arts and a wonderful sense of comedy . 
 " drunken master " has the distinction of being the first jackie chan movie to " make it big " --this is the movie that supposedly set jackie up for big stardom in hong kong . 
i'm not entirely sure why , exactly . 
in many ways , " drunken master " is similar to most of jackie's other early films , such as " fearless hyena " i and ii , " master with cracked fingers " , " half a loaf of kung fu " , " spiritual kung fu " , and others . 
in fact , looking at all these early films together , one gets the impression that they were stamped out , cookie-cutter style , at a rate of four to six per year , all using the same casts and telling very similar stories . 
to be honest , i think that early jackie chan movies are something of an acquired taste . 
they're quite different from action movies as we know them in america . 
these films tend to be set in the chinese countryside in an indeterminate period sometime in the distant past , with fairly slow plots that often meander far afield and sometimes seem to exist only for the intention of stringing comedy and fight scenes together . 
 " drunken master " , though its plot is tighter than some , is no exception . 
 ( as an aside , " drunken master " was the first jackie chan movie i ever saw , and i saw it the way it was meant to be seen . . . in 
a movie theater in seattle , as part of an asian film festival . 
at the time , i didn't really think it was anything special . . . but 
after having seen more films like it , it's kind of grown on me . ) 
 " drunken master " 's storyline is very similar to that of other early jackie chan movies , such as " fearless hyena " i and ii and " master with cracked fingers " --slacker martial arts student is taught the martial arts by a harsh-seeming master , and has a big fight with an evil bad guy in the end ( a formula that has been " adapted , " to put it kindly , by american films such as karate kid ) . 
more specifically , jackie chan plays the part of wong fei-hong , aka " naughty panther , " a fun-loving , practical-joking kung fu student who is too good at kung fu for his own good , but not _quite_ good enough . 
after embarrassing his instructor's assistant by beating him roundly , then beating up a bully in a marketplace , wong fei-hong tries to hit on a pretty girl , but discovers that she , and her mother , can hit back , better than he can . . . and 
is further chagrinned to discover that the two women are his cousin and aunt , respectively . 
his father , wong kei-ying , is unhappy about this , and is further annoyed when the father and brother of the bully show up to sue for damages . 
kei-ying soon institutes a harsh regimen of punishment , which fei-hong does not like at all . 
while escaping from this punishment , fei-hong meets up with a drunken old man , who proceeds to thrash him soundly , then take him on as a student and thrash him some more . 
this turns out to be su hua-chi , a legendary master of drunken-style kung fu . 
he assigns fei-hong a series of bizarre tasks , such as filling jugs with water while hanging upside down from a frame , cracking walnuts with his hands , and other such exercises , that seem like more pointless cruelty but are actually strengthening him up . 
then , when he's ready , he teaches him the seven styles of drunken kung fu . 
unfortunately , the lazy fei-hong only practices six of them . . . 
 " drunken master " features some wonderful martial arts sequences , with jackie winning some fights and losing others . 
it's been said before , but i'll say it again--these fights don't just _happen_ , they're as carefully choreographed as any ballet performance , and it shows . 
in his fights , jackie often makes use of objects found in his environment-- benches , jugs , cups , bowls , fruits and vegetables--often in new and surprising ways . 
the fight scenes , particularly those toward the end of the film , are unparallelled in most american films . 
whether jackie wins or loses , it's really something to see . . . and 
it's often as funny as anything , too . 
and funny is the other thing jackie chan is very , very good at . 
there's very little that's new in this movie--jackie winning fights , jackie getting beaten badly by a master , jackie going through punishment or training . . . these 
schticks have all been seen before , in any one of several dozen similar jackie movies from the seventies and early eighties . 
but they're still hilarious as ever . 
likewise , jackie has a _great_ supporting cast , many of whom were also in other early jackie films , and they're often the source of plenty of hilarity on their own . 
the really big thing about " drunken master " , though , that inspired several copycats ( including a couple starring jackie himself ) and a sequel fifteen years later , was the drunken-style kung fu . 
i'm not certain whether or not this is actually a genuine style of kung fu , but the principle behind it is to imitate the wobbly movements of a drunkard to lull the enemy into a false sense of security . . . and 
it apparently helps if you're drunk while you're doing it . 
genuine or not , i have to admit , there's just something incredibly fun about watching a fellow who looks utterly sloshed wading into a group of startled opponents and making mincemeat out of them before they even realize what's going on . 
come to think of it , perhaps this element is what accounts for this film's success over any of the other jackie films . . . it's 
not just martial arts , it's the kind of martial arts that makes you stop and go , " whoa . . . " 
on the negative side , the cinematography in this film is nothing special , the film stock is rather primitive , the plot is often rather slow , and the subtitles are sometimes extremely hard to read against the background . 
 " gone with the wind " , this isn't . 
still , if you like martial arts films , or like what you've seen so far of jackie chan and want to see more , give it a shot . 
it's much more " real " than chuck norris or jean-claude van damme . 
you might very well like it . 
another interesting thing about " drunken master " has to do with its video availability in the us . 
 " drunken master " is the only early jackie chan movie that i know of that you can find in its original , letterboxed , hong kong subtitled form , commercially available on vhs ( from magnum video , in a gold box , for about $10 ) . 
there are plenty of other early jackie films around , but these are typically either in dubbed , pan-and-scanned form or else import tapes priced for rental instead of purchase . 
thankfully , " drunken master " , at least , is available in the aspect ratio in which it was meant to be seen , at a very affordable price . 
if you like " drunken master " , take a look at the numerous other early jackie chan films that are out there ( even the dubbed ones aren't really _too_ bad . . . if 
nothing else , you can enjoy the martial arts choreography while making fun of the dialogue ) . 
i particularly recommend " spiritual kung fu " , " half a loaf of kung fu " , the " fearless hyena " movies , and " snake & crane arts of shaolin " . 
also , the mostly-unrelated-storywise sequel , " drunken master ii " , will hit theaters in american release sometime later this year ( though what its american-release title will be is still uncertain ) and comes _highly_ recommended by this reviewer . 
also , for a rather different interpretation of the character wong fei-hong ( who is in fact a popular figure from chinese folklore ) , i've been told to suggest the " once upon a time in china " series starring jet li ( though i haven't personally seen any of them yet ) . 
if you choose to watch " drunken master " , i really hope you enjoy it , and i hope it starts to open your eyes to the wonderful world of asian cinema that's out there . 
all in all , i give this film an . 

in the company of men made a splash at the sundance film festival because , in a year plagued by brothers mcmullen-style , earnestly shallow gen-x angst pictures , it seemed to be actually about something . 
it angered people , started arguments outside the theater , riled things up . 
it ignited a spark of excitement in what otherwise has been a disappointing year for independent film . 
having endured my share of the hype , i waited calmly for men to reach the hinterlands wherein i reside , and then checked in to see what all the fuss was about . 
does men live up to its press ? 
well , yes it does . 
and it may make you think twice before you consider dating anyone your office . 
for the uninitiated , newcomers aaron eckhart and matt malloy play chad and howard , two corporate drones who are dispatched by their nameless company to a remote branch office for a six week assignment . 
chad and howard are archetypes , examples of which you can no doubt find in your own place of business . 
chad is the blond golden boy , genetically engineered for success , the natural charmer who seems to glide effortlessly up the corporate ladder . 
howard is chad's boss , but he is weaker of will , the clumsy practitioner of office politics who has achieved his position through dogged persistence rather than raw talent . 
we first meet them awaiting their flight in a drab airport lounge . 
there chad suggests a scheme worthy of a shakespearean villain : he and howard will find a vulnerable single woman at the branch office , woo her simultaneously , win her love , and then dump her . 
the reason ? 
both men have recently been dumped themselves , and chad sees an easy route to revenge against the fairer sex . 
 " it'll restore a little dignity to our lives , " he says . 
howard , helpless against the force of chad's will , agrees to the plan . 
they quickly spot their prey in the form of christine ( stacy edwards ) , a fragile deaf woman working as a temp . 
chad moves in for the kill , flashing his golden boy smile , plying christine with lunch , then flowers , then dinner . 
howard follows suit , though his efforts are in contrast ham-handed and desperate . 
flattered to have the attention of two eligible men , christine dates them both . 
you can guess which one she falls for . 
soon a tragic lovers' triangle develops : christine loves chad , chad loves himself , and howard loves christine on the grounds that , since she's handicapped and shy , she just might be wretched and lonely enough to settle for him . 
adult social interaction never really progresses beyond the level of junior high , does it ? 
in chad , writer/director labute and actor eckhart have created one of the most chilling monsters ever committed to film-hannibal lector may eat human flesh , but chad is an eater of souls . 
his evil is as subtle as a viper's , and as easy as his smile . 
we watch in stunned disbelief as he back-stabs coworkers , humiliates his subordinates , and works his deadly venom into christine's heart . 
his character would be a joke if he wasn't so chillingly real- all of us have worked with a chad , and some of us may be him . 
he's the guy who takes your job and then laughs at you for your weakness . 
if one of his co-workers should happen to go postal and walk into the office with a bag full of handguns , he had best have his escape route clearly in mind . 
politics is his game , and the modern cubicle-filled office is his playground . 
men wears the guise of a black comedy , but it functions best as allegory . 
the most controversial moment in the film happens when chad humiliates a black temp by asking him how badly he wants to succeed in the company , then forces him to prove it in a manner i won't describe . 
the scene is charged with racism and fraught with peril . 
could it happen in the real world ? 
probably not . 
taken as allegory , however , it is representative of the treatment of the meek by the powerful in all facets of society . 
maybe it's just the english major in me , but chad , in his motiveless cruelty towards christine and his careful manipulation of howard , can be seen as a symbol of unbridled capitalism , of greed without conscience . 
the entire film is a metaphor for social darwinism- only the strong will survive . 
the marvel of labute's multi-layered script is that it can disturb each member of its audience in an entirely different way . 
but does the film work as entertainment ? 
its darned funny in spots , particularly in the men's room scenes , which demonstrate the lengths to which guys will go to hold a conversation while engaged in the most basic of bodily functions . 
it works less well as drama , since by necessity the characters in an allegory tend to be flat ciphers . 
stacy edwards gives a measured dignity to christine , and succeeds in making us care for her , but by the end of the film we still know nothing about her . 
likewise , chad and howard are simply the sum of their actions . 
by the end of the film you'll feel as if you've met a genuine monster in chad ; perhaps we can also classify men as a horror film . 
certainly those expecting a conventional hollywood resolution to the story will walk away disappointed . 
but the picture is often mesmerizing , and the script is a work of fine craftsmanship , which makes it well worth your time . 
like all good films , it offers a myriad of parallels to the outside world . 
while watching chad in his moment of triumph , i couldn't help but think that bill gates must have felt the same sort of cold , merciless satisfaction when he finally stuck it to steve jobs . 
there may be a little bit of chad in all of us , but some of us have taken chad-ness to the level of art . 

scream 2 isn't quite as clever as its predecessor , but it fills the gap with a cutting wit . 
death -- even gruesome , bloody death -- can be funny if handled the right way ( some will be offended by this statement , but you need look no further than pulp fiction for an example ) . 
and , while there's plenty of horror to go around in scream 2 , the latest '90s slasher flick incarnation , there are also a few laughs to be had . 
scream 2 is a slice-and-dice movie for those who don't take their horror too seriously . 
the success of the original scream took everyone in the industry by surprise . 
the unexpected blockbuster , whose gross soared over the $100 million mark during its six month release window , opened just about a year ago and turned into one of the most profitable horror films of all time . 
a sequel was inevitable ; fortunately , nearly the entire creative team has returned for scream 2 , including director wes craven , screenwriter kevin williamson , and actors neve campbell , courtney cox , david arquette , jamie kennedy , and liev schreiber . 
as stipulated by one of the " rules of sequels " uttered by a movie- obsessed character in the film , the body count in scream 2 is higher than that in the original . 
paradoxically , there's a lot less gore . 
there is blood , of course , but nothing excessive by slasher-movie standards , and there are no depictions of spilled entrails . 
craven has remembered that scares are more important that graphic displays of human insides and bodily fluids . 
a second strength of scream 2 is that it features a gallery of legitimate characters rather than a group of cardboard cut-out stereotypes lined up for slaughter . 
after all , we've known some of these people for two movies -- it's almost impossible not to care about them at least a little . 
scream 2 opens approximately two years after the original . 
as in the first picture , there's a slick , self-mocking prologue . 
this time , the victims are jada pinkett and omar epps , whose characters are visiting a local theater for a preview screening of the movie stab ( which is based on the " true life " events of scream ) . 
some of the smartest dialogue comes during this sequence as pinkett bemoans the lack of african american participation in horror films ( it's surely no coincidence that , in addition to pinkett and epps , scream 2 features two black characters ) . 
shortly thereafter , she and her boyfriend have been gutted , signaling the beginning of a series of copycat murders . 
craven lets loose a burst of tongue-in-cheek creativity for the " movie within a movie " sequences . 
they give him an opportunity to openly parody scream -- an act that he accomplishes with great panache . 
stab features heather graham in the " casey becker " role ( played in the original by drew barrymore ) and tori spelling as " sidney prescott " ( neve campbell ) . 
sadly , we only see a couple of scenes from stab . 
it would have been a little more fun , i think , had craven used joe dante's approach from matinee and shown lengthy excerpts from his satirical production . 
following the prologue , we are re-introduced to sidney prescott , who has left her sleepy hometown to go to windsor college . 
her friend randy ( jamie kennedy ) is a student there as well , and he's just as knowledgeable about horror films as ever . 
once the double murder at stab becomes big news , the media converges on windsor , looking to interview the original victim . 
at the head of the flock of vultures is gale weathers ( courtney cox ) , who has a little surprise for sidney . 
she has brought cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney falsely accused of murder , with her . 
also arriving at the college is deputy dewey ( david arquette ) , who is there to act as a big brother to sidney during this latest round of tribulations . 
in addition to the survivors from the original scream , the field of potential victims is well-populated . 
there's a blond co-ed named cece ( sarah michelle gellar , who has now appeared in two of williamson's movies -- this one and i know what you did last summer ) ; sidney's requisite boyfriend , derek ( jerry o'connell ) ; a local newswoman ( laurie metcalf ) ; gale's new cameraman ( duane martin ) ; a british drama teacher ( david warner ) ; and several sorority sisters and would-be sorority sisters ( portia de rossi , rebecca gayheart , elise neal , marisol nichols ) . 
ultimately , there are lots of attractive corpses . 
from the stab scenes to lines like " brothers don't last long in situations like this , " craven and williamson are clearly having a lot of fun with scream 2 , and the movie is enjoyable , if a little overlong ( the livelier first hour is better than the second ) . 
their resolution to the obligatory " whodunit ? " 
is less of a letdown than it could be , and knowingly offers a wink and nod at past unmasking scenes . 
 ( " nice twist , " quips the killer . 
 " didn't see it coming , didya ? " ) 
one senses , however , that , by the end of this picture , the overall concept of a hip , self-referential slasher film has been played out . 
supposedly , there's going to be a scream 3 , but , if the film makers don't come up with something radical , we could end up with a classic case of sequel overkill . 

in one of my many videos i have attained from the local library , casablanca was my third classic in some weeks . 
the others being citizen kane and vertigo ( yes , i am trying to see as many of afi's greatest movies ever made as i can ) . 
but , casablanca stood out from the rest for me : it was actually watchable . 
what most hail as the greatest american film ever , casablanca isn't so much a love story as a political frenzy with a love triangle thrown in . 
it seems that star humphry bogart spend about 85 percent of the movie with various leaders of the nation instead of with ingred bergman . 
that annoyed me , as did the ending . 
why didn't the plan turn around ? ! ? 
surprisingly , i enjoyed the film . 
i liked bogart's character and his acting ( not over the top as most actors in his era ) . 
i once read about if you had a choice to be in a movie , which one would it be , and a women said casablanca . 
at first i was thinking to myself " why ? " 
then , as i watched the film again , i understood why . 
the movie is very well done and the script top-notch , although i doubt i understood more than half of the political mumbo jumbo . 
casablanca is , in my mind , no classic ( like solaris ) , but it is a good film and stylishly shot . 
hey , hollywood , how about this : a remake with harrison ford and anne heche ? 
now that would be a classic . 

in 1990 , the surprise success an unheralded little movie called ghost instantly rescued the moribund careers of its trio of above-the-title stars , patrick swayze , demi moore , and whoopi goldberg . 
eight years later , moore and goldberg's careers aren't exactly thriving , but they have had their share of screen successes since ; the same can't be said of swayze , who has just added yet another turkey to his resume with the aptly named black dog . 
forget the mortal kombat movies--this trucksploitation flick is the closest the movies has come to video games . 
good truck driver jack crews ( swayze ) must drive a cargo of illegal firearms from atlanta to new jersey . 
along the way , jack and his crew of three run into a number of obstacles--such as a highway weigh station , evil truckers , and deadly uzi-firing motorcyclists . 
every so often , like at the end of a video game " level " or " stage , " the main baddie pops up : red ( meat loaf , fresh from the triumph of spice world ) , who wants to steal the cache of guns . 
just in case you forget his name or have trouble keeping track of who's driving what , all of red's vehicles , be it a pickup or a big rig , are painted--you guessed it--red . 
i could go into more of the plot specifics ( such as jack's dream of having a nice home with his family , the past trauma that sent him to prison and cost him his trucking license , the fbi/atf crew tracking the cargo ) , but they are of little importance . 
all that matters to director kevin hooks and writers william mickelberry and dan vining are the obstacles jack confronts in his drive from point a to point b . but they fail at even this modest goal , for none of the highway chaos , as credibly staged as it is , is terribly interesting , let alone exciting . 
once you've seen a couple of trucks bang against each other or a big rig explode the first time , you've seen it every time . 
as dreary as black dog is as an entertainment , the saddest part about the film has nothing to do with what shows up onscreen ; it's that swayze has to reduce himself to such work . 
while far from the best of actors , he is certainly not horrible , and he is a charismatic presence . 
i don't know if it's his judgment or the dearth of quality job offers that leads him to involve himself with bombs such as black dog . 
regardless , if he continues on this career track , could a tv series be far behind ? 

 " you leave little notes on my pillow . 
i told you a million times i can't stand little notes on my pillow . 
'we are all out of corn flakes - f . u . ' 
it took me three hours to figure out that 'f . u . ' was felix unger . " 
--- a frustrated oscar madison ( walter matthau ) running down a list of his complaints against his roommate felix unger ( jack lemmon ) , in the odd couple . 
the classic neil simon comedy ( based on his own stage play ) about suicidal felix ( lemmon ) , who is persuaded by his poker friend oscar ( matthau ) to stay with him in his apartment after felix's wife throws him out and files for divorce . 
the hook : oscar is messy and likes his apartment that way , while felix is an obsessive/compulsive neat freak . 
the two men , despite their friendship , instantly clash . 
movies just aren't as delightfully funny as this one is . 
every line of neil simon's dialogue flows like comedic poetry , and all the actors are just perfect in their performances . 
lemmon is at his best as the anxiety ridden felix , but it's matthau who shines brightest as oscar , whose world is being invaded and rearranged , mostly against his wishes ( the type of character i always enjoy identifying with ) . 
and who can forget that catchy score by neal hefti ? 
the best thing about the film ( and this is a testament to the quality of the writing ) is that it's a comedy with substance . 
these two men , even while at each other's throats , genuinely care for one another as friends . 
when they clash , it isn't cartoonish hatred being displayed , but genuine frustration with the fact that they are such good friends but just cannot manage to co-exist . 
movies nowadays , take grumpy old men for example , just don't have that extra spark there . 
these days it's just animosity for the sake of comedy . 
a television series followed ( starring jack klugman and tony randall ) , which i'll admit i've never seen an episode of in its entirety , and neil simon even scripted the sequel , the odd couple ii , which was released in 1998 . 
neither of them compare to this comic masterpiece though . 
it's one of the best comedies of all time and easily earns its spot in my top ten favorite films . 

movies can do the two big es very well : educate and entertain . 
in the best of all possible worlds , they accomplish both . 
on the red planet , they fail entirely . 
in the near future , a manned mission is sent to mars to observe primitive plant growth . 
this film does a remarkable job of demonstrating exactly how exciting watching algae grow would be . 
after some mumbo-jumbo about an ecological disaster on earth and an interminable wait to reach the fourth planet , the ship falls apart almost as fast as the movie does . 
the ground crew of people you couldn't care less about is trapped on the surface without food , water or air and stalked by a deadly rogue cyberdog . 
the one potentially interesting character ( carrie-anne moss ) spends her time alone in the orbiting ship talking to a computer . 
attempting to graft " 2001 " esque space mysticism with " terminator " robot horror , first time director antony hoffman can't seem to figure out what's going on . 
neither can we . 
didn't he have anyone who could step back from the shooting and make sure there was a coherent story ? 
couldn't he have used the money saved by only having to pay half a dozen actors to hire a scriptwriter ? 
there are so many mis-steps . 
every opportunity to create dynamic tension is thwarted by plot holes and lackluster direction . 
why introduce the theme of faith vs . science if the crewman who could comment on it disappears early only to die _offscreen_ ? 
the audience begins the film waiting for something to happen . 
two hours later , they're still waiting . 
despite our greatest hopes , there is no life on the red planet . 

aggressive , bleak , and unrelenting film about an interracial couple , steve and sam ( damon jones and elexa williams respectively ) , who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads . 
the skinheads beat steve , then force him to watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over and over again . 
when sam kills herself later that evening , steve decides that the skinheads must be taught a lesson . 
waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads to forget about the incident entirely , steve shaves his head , dresses in combat boots and suspenders , tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols , and tries to infiltrate the gang . 
as he gets closer and closer to the people who committed the horrible crime against his girlfriend , he begins to learn just how vicious these people really are and starts to question his own motives for violence . 
randolph kret's script , based on two real life incidents that affected not only his life but the life of the film's producer shaun hill , is an affront on violence and intolerance . 
the film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality and ignorance that one can't help but be disgusted by the events presented within . 
i've seen it said that this is the film fight club should have been , but david fincher's film was trying to define a generation . 
kret's film is a wake up call to a generation and his message is a powerful one . 
if fincher is the kubrick of our generation , then kret is our d . w . 
griffith ( thematically speaking ) . 
there is not a single likable character in the film . 
the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film , not only because of their beliefs but because they are in a constant state of fury ( not just against other races but within their own circles ) . 
the african-american characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking for someone to accost . 
even gay men get in on the act , locating the skinheads' lair and beating them severely with lead pipes and other blunt objects . 
the main character steve is also unlikable because of the person he becomes just to seek out revenge . 
what all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets violence , and the constant clashes between factions will do nothing but continue the endless cycle of violence inherent in our society . 
the cast of this film is absolutely remarkable . 
damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors can't seem to summon these days and his performance seems nothing less than powerful . 
his initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend's suicide is one of the most affecting scenes i have ever seen in a film . 
david lee wilson , who plays ( appropriately enough ) david lee is accurately evil as the second in command skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex on other men ( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads ) . 
wilson's character is pure hatred and he brings out this hate perfectly . 
sadly , actor dave ward , who portrays the character of crew , will not be able to follow up his excellent performance as he was the victim of a vicious act of violence himself at the hands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage . 
ward showed immense promise and he will be greatly missed . 
note : it is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contributing music for the film condone racism . 
the message about hatred couldn't be spelled out any more clearly than it is here , but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a training video than a condemnation . 
there are no " winners " at the end of this film either . 
no character gets his or her comeuppance and the ending leaves us almost right where we began . 
where american history x had redemption for most of its characters , no such victories are in store for pariah's band of twisted souls . 
it is this bleak ending that carries the film's most powerful message : the message that , despite what you may be able to momentarily do to put your own mind to rest , evil will still be with us ( and in many forms ) and there is very little than can be done to eradicate it entirely . 

historical epic as a genre was almost banished from hollywood in early 1990s . 
for many critics , scholars and , most importantly , film producers , it was a thing of the past - something that could have attracted crowds only in the era of black-and-white television and non-cgi special effects . 
but in 1995 , same as in the case of dances with wolves five years ago , there came the man who decided to use of all his energy and talents of actor , producer and director in order to revitalise that particular genre . 
and , same as in the case of dances with wolves , he was awarded for his effort with " oscars " . 
the name of the film was braveheart , and the name of its director and main actor was mel gibson . 
the plot chronicles the life of scottish warlord and folk hero william wallace ( 1272 - 1305 ) . 
in his time , english king edward i " longshanks " ( played by patrick mcgoohan ) has almost completely subdued entire british isles , including scotland , whose proud inhabitants are now subjected by " ius primae noctis " and various other forms of humiliation and oppression by english knights . 
although english had killed his father many years ago , young scottish commoner william wallace ( played by mel gibson ) doesn't care about politics and wants only to have peaceful life with his new bride murron ( played by catherine maccormack ) . 
murron's death changes that and wallace takes arms and , together with small but dedicated band of followers , begins guerrilla campaign that would systematically destroy almost every english garrison in the country . 
through time , more and more people join his ranks and in 1298 wallace's rag-tag army scores surprising victory against english knights in the battle of stirling bridge . 
but the newly won freedom is endangered by the internal squabbles between scots themselves , especially nobles under pretender robert the bruce ( played by angus macfadyen ) , who wouldn't like to have a simple commoner as a national leader . 
braveheart was only the second film in the directorial career by mel gibson , so it wouldn't be fair to compare it to the better known genre classics directed by david lean or anthony mann . 
however , even when we apply such criteria braveheart is more than decent historical epic that takes new and refreshing approach to the genre . 
the most noticeable element of this approach is naturalism . 
while older hollywood films set in medieval europe used to give fairytale-like vision of picturesque castles , splendid costumes and knights in shining armour , gibson shows us the extremely unpleasant world of poverty and feudal injustice where might made right and life was hard , short and brutish . 
this general unpleasantness is especially underlined in the scenes of battle , where hand-to-hand combat is naturalistically displayed in all its gory details , never seen since verhoeven's ultra-naturalistic flesh & blood . 
compared with this naturalistic approach , most of old hollywood epics look like stage plays . 
braveheart also employs humour at the right places , not only to make bloody realities of medieval british isles more bearable to sensitive audiences , but also to underline its down-to-earth atmosphere , so different from previous historical epics . 
what makes braveheart " larger than life " is his protagonist . 
mel gibson obviously invested plenty of his energy and talent in bringing the mythical figure of william wallace and , as a result , character of 15th century poems is transformed into superhuman being that resembles late 20th century comic book hero . 
wallace is more than superior to his enemies , both physically and mentally , yet he is able to show his sensitive , more vulnerable side . 
naturally , when the character is based on epic poems , most of historical accuracy is going down the drain ( which was the case with almost every historical epic from hollywood in 1990s ) . 
however , even those who don't particularly care about history or are willing to give poetic license to scriptwriter randall wallace might think that he went over the top in idolising wallace , especially in the second part of film when scottish superhero manages to seduce princess isabel ( played by sophie marceau ) and make her a child . 
because of that the disbelief is hardly suspended , and final scenes aren't as effective as they should be . 
mel gibson as an actor is truly wonderful , and he is also helped by small army of very good british and irish actors . 
most memorable of them all is patrick mcgoohan , whose cold , calculated and evil medieval monarch is one of the most effective villains seen in contemporary cinema . 
brendan gleeson ( who would later become famous for his role in boorman's general ) is also very good as wallace's trusted companion , as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy-stricken king john balliol . 
david o'harra is very entertaining as wallace's irish ally , and angus macfadyen brings a lot of anxiety into his conscience-stricken character of robert the bruce . 
women in this film have rather thankless roles , especially marceau as one-dimensional french princess . 
catherine mccormack as wallace's wife was more interesting , but she was eliminated from the picture early on . 
from the technical point of view , the film is also very good . 
photography by john toll brings a lot of scottish natural beauty to the screen . 
on the other hand , the musical score by james horner employs too much of modern-day instruments for period piece set in medieval times . 
although mostly welcomed by critics and audiences alike , braveheart was often criticised for homophobia and other forms of extreme conservatism . 
the main reason for that was the fact that gibson , among many historical facts , chose to be faithful only to those related to sexual orientation of " longshank " 's son prince edward ( played by peter hanly ) . 
he is not only presented as a villain , but also as one of the less competent in villain's camp - and portraying of homosexuals as villains or inferior to heterosexuals is almost unforgivable sin in " politically correct " hollywood . 
to make things even more obvious , good guys in this film are the total opposite of effeminate and incompetent edward - rugged macho men of mountains who are more practical and efficient because they tend to employ conservatives' common sense instead of fashionable theories of ivory tower liberals . 
however , although the message of this film might look right-wing , it owes more to leftist ideology of various national liberation movements in 20th century . 
according to that ideology , oppressed classes ( workers , peasants ) are better suited to fight for national freedom because their members has less to lose in that struggle and , as such , they are more radical , less willing to make compromises and more efficient ; on the other hand , privileged classes ( aristocracy , bourgeoisie ) are more likely to betray the cause of freedom and be in cahoots with foreign oppressors in order to keep their privileges . 
this marxist worldview is presented in braveheart without any subtlety . 
in the end , whether the audience is patient enough to discover hidden meanings or simply wants to enjoy entertaining historical epic , braveheart is more than adequate choice for all fans of this recently resurrected genre . 

 " the endurance : shackleton's legendary antarctic expedition " 
in 1914 , as the great war descended upon europe , sir ernest shackleton began his third expedition to antarctica , this time to be the first to cross the ice-bound continent on foot . 
28 men set sail on the brigantine endurance and they would not be heard from again for nearly two years . 
director george butler , using film footage and photographs from the historic journey , tells their remarkable story in " the endurance : shackleton's legendary antarctic expedition . " 
the expedition started out as a merely incredibly difficult quest to traverse , on foot , the vast wasteland of antarctica . 
as the intrepid ship and crew entered the weddell sea , the entry to the cold , cruel continent , they did not plan on the dense pack ice bringing the voyage to an abrupt halt as the endurance became trapped within sight of land . 
for months the ice thickened and compressed until the ship was crushed , stranding the men on the flow , propelling them away from their goal and , eventually , into their lifeboats for safety . 
shackleton , faced with a desolate situation , made the decision to lead the three tiny boats to the relative safety of uninhabited elephant island . 
once on this " safe " haven , shackleton next turned his sights to saving his crew and returning them to civilization . 
he and five of his men leave the island in an open boat to make the 800 mile journey on the world's roughest sea to get help from the nearest inhabited island of south georgia . 
miraculously , the six land , after 17 days at sea , on the uninhabited side of the target island and are forced to trek across treacherous , snow covered mountains , covering 22 miles in just 36 hours . 
this ordeal is followed by several attempts by shackleton to get back to elephant island to rescue the remaining crewmen . 
in the end , he is successful and everyone made it back home alive , only to be swallowed up by the ravages of the war . 
the title of this fascinating documentary , " the endurance , " is more than just the name of ship that carried the crew of brave men to the edge of the world . 
it is also the description of the stamina and ability of every one of the men who survived 19-months of the toughest , most grueling conditions on the face of the earth . 
the name of the film is a tribute to every member of the crew and to the ship that sheltered them for many month of frigid antarctic weather . 
it also describes the focused mental state of shackleton who never gave up on himself or his men . 
with astonishing foresight , shackleton brought australian cinematographer and photographer frank hurley along on the journey . 
the filmed footage and photos are remarkable as they capture the ordeal of the men , day to day life , the affection all felt for their loyal sled dogs , the slow destruction of the endurance and the preparations to get off of the pack ice flow . 
after the sinking of the ship , the remaining film stock , with the exception of a still camera and three rolls of film , had to be discarded so the continuing chronicle of the incredible journey gets less photo documentation as the ordeal plods on . 
considering hurley was using relatively primitive photo technology in one of the world's harshest environments and captured so much on film is a feat unto itself . 
 ( hurley created his own account of the shackleton expedition in his 1919 documentary , " south , " an interesting companion piece for " the endurance . " 
if shackleton's original idea , document his trek across the frigid southern continent , had been successful , it would have been considered a super human feat . 
as you watch the story of " the endurance " unfold , you realize that the disastrous obstacles the sir ernest and his men faced and overcame were even greater accomplishments than the first intent . 
 ( shackleton's amazing 800-mile journey in an open boat is fodder for a rousing adventure story all by itself . ) 
there are a couple of minor nitpicks with this fine work , though . 
actor liam neeson narrates the story , but his voice is too soft spoken and lilting for the dramatic tale . 
the nature of the ordeal also concentrates most of the visual material , both film and photo , in the documentary's first half . 
as the crew's adventure takes more drastic paths , hurley had less and less film stock available to chronicle the awesome events . 
helmer butler and his team fill in the blanks , but the treasure of " the endurance , " its film footage , is mostly relegated to the early months of the expedition . 
i can't think of a true-life adventure that shows , better , the triumph of man over seemingly insurmountable odds . 
 " the endurance , " based on caroline alexander's book , is an eye-opening documentary that goes where few men have gone before and , even more remarkably , all 28 survivors lived to tell about it . 
i give it a b+ . 

 " dangerous beauty " is a really nothing more than a grandiose soap opera set in venice circa 1583 . 
it is beautifully filmed , wonderfully acted , and certainly nothing short of entertaining , but it lacks any true fundamental seriousness . 
dealing with themes of forbidden love , religious intolerance , subordination of women , sexual freedom , and the roles of pleasure and sin in a high-cultured society , it still feels like brightly lit fluff . 
the director , marshall herskovitz , doesn't want to follow the dark and dangerous trail this story could lead down , so he opts for a more genial , livelier , and relatively shallow interpretation . 
the film takes place during the renaissance , a time when venice was the pleasure capital of europe . 
at this time , venice was its own republic , and it thrived on being the central juncture of east-west commerce . 
the film is told almost entirely through the viewpoint of the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie of venice , so we rarely get to see how the rest of the society lived . 
however , there is an abundance of detail concerning the lives and livelihoods of the upper classes , their hedonistic lifestyles and constant merriment . 
the story centers on veronica franco ( catherine mccormack ) , a lower class woman who falls in love with marco venier ( rufus sewell ) , the son of wealthy aristocratic parents ( jeroen krabb ? and joanna cassidy ) . 
unfortunately , the culture of that time period did not view marriage as an act of love -- rather , it was more like a business transaction , where rich families married their sons and daughters to each other in order to secure power , wealth , and ensure that outsiders couldn't get in . 
veronica , despite her charm and good looks , is certainly an outsider . 
after a short love affair , marco breaks her heart with the news that he cannot marry her . 
however , because she is beautiful and intelligent , veronica has a chance to enter marco's world , albeit not as his wife . 
she decides to become a courtesan -- a class of women who were as well-educated as they were ravishing , and sold their sexuality to wealthy men for the privilege of wining and dining with the elite . 
a courtesan was not a mere prostitute ; they were afforded a special place in society , and they were greatly revered , respected , and often envied . 
at one point , a character mentions that some rulers obtain more political advice from their courtesans than from their lieutenants . 
veronica goes through the transformation with the help of her mother , paola ( jacqueline bisset ) , who was once a famed courtesan herself . 
once she enters the lifestyle , veronica finds that it suits her quite well . 
she is allowed to read all the books she wants , she is given the opportunity to publish her poetry , and she has the richest and most powerful men in the republic throwing themselves at her feet , including the awestruck marco . 
their relationship develops into a playful bantering , with veronica utilizing her newfound power by constantly rejecting marco's advances . 
in many ways , their relationship is sad because marco is married to a women he is unable to love , and veronica is consumed by multiple relationships with men she is unwilling to love . 
 " love the love , not the man , " as her mother told her . 
 " dangerous beauty , " which was based on a factual book by margaret rosenthal , flows along as smoothly and serenely as the grand canal running through the heart of venice . 
it has multiple plot lines -- including veronica's adversarial relationship with a court poet ( oliver platt ) , her role in obtaining france's military assistance in venice's battle against the turks , and even the dreaded shadow of the plague and the encroachment of the spanish inquisition -- yet it is never confusing or overbearing . 
much of the film's success is due to the glowing performance by catherine mccormack in the lead role . 
known chiefly for the small part she played as the lover whose murder raised mel gibson's ire in " braveheart " ( 1995 ) , mccormack shows the true gifts and inarguable talent of a leading lady . 
she has the kind of exquisite classical beauty that would be treasured in a courtesan ; her character is intelligent , witty , and both sensual and vulnerable , all of which mccormack easily transmits with a single flash of her eyes . 
the rest of the roles are also filled well , including rufus sewell whose performance here and earlier this month in " dark city " have assured him a solid place in hollywood . 
he has the same kind of unusual good looks and charm of ray liotta , and he seems perfectly at home in period dramas . 
oliver platt plays a variation of the comic relief role that he has come to inhabit like a second skin , although the film deals his character a cheap blow at the end by having him improbably join the inquisition and turn into the bad guy . 
platt is a good actor , but he's just too hard to hate . 
jacqueline bisset proves that she is every bit as stirring as she ever was , and even fred ward turns up in a small , but moving performance as marco's uncle . 
 " dangerous beauty " is marshall herskovitz's sophomore directorial effort , after the overlooked 1993 film " jack the bear . " 
partnered with edward zwick , herskovitz has spent most of his time as a producer on television ( " thirtysomething , " " my so-called life " ) and in the movies ( " legends of the fall " ) . 
his directing style can be best described as transparent -- it never gets in the way of the story , yet it has no discernible flourish or particular distinctions . 
he could have approached the film in any number of ways , including overdosing on the sexual aspect , which he wisely avoids . 
 " dangerous beauty " contains just enough bare flesh and ribald sex to make it appropriately erotic , but not so much that it seems exploitative . 
herskovitz is also aided by a strong supporting crew , including the luscious photography by bojan bazelli , whose previous efforts include the highly-stylized thriller " kalifornia " ( 1993 ) and abel ferrara's dark sci-fi film " body snatchers " ( 1994 ) . 
bazelli captures the film in strong , bold colors , and be brings sixteenth-century venice to life in wide , panoramic shots that are often enhanced with digital imagery . 
however , the real details are found in the production design by norman garwood ( " brazil , " " the princess bride " ) and the costumes by gabriella pescucci ( " the age of innocence " ) . 
the only problem with " dangerous beauty " is that it doesn't stick with you . 
it's a good story well-told with interesting characters , but it's easy to shrug off once you've left the theater . 
the only sequence that has the chance to be truly indelible is veronica being pulled in front of the hypocrisy of the inquisition and threatened with the death penalty for her transgressions , but it never quite comes off because it's simply too melodramatic and conventional . 
herskovitz tries with all his might to make it a nailbiter , but somehow its outcome is a foregone conclusion , and like the rest of the film , it carries no real weight , despite the potential severity of the subject matter . 

that thing you do ! , from first-time film director tom hanks , is an enjoyable tale about a fictional band , the wonders , that goes from a garage band to the band with the fastest selling album in the country . 
but , the question arrises , will the seduction of fame and fortune corrupt the band and lead them to become just another one-hit wonder , or will they stick together and become the next teen sensations ? 
the " oneders " , as they are originally known , have their first gig at a very small-time contest . 
jimmy , the lead singer , has written a catchy song and intends to play it at the contest . 
but , a short time before the contest begins , the current drummer becomes injured and a replacement is needed . 
enter guy patterson , skilled musician who currently works at his father's appliance store and is looking to break free from the restricting clutches that bind him . 
he seems to fit in well , until the group takes the stage . 
when they begin to play , guy's beat is much too fast and the pace is way off for the intended song . 
it looks as though the group is doomed to failure . 
but , the " new " song is a hit ! 
this leads to another gig , and soon enough , the group has an agent . 
he doesn't do too much for them , but they do get their song played on the radio . 
eventually , mr . white of playtone records approaches the group , and he informs them that they want to release a record . 
before you can say " billboard " , the band is now renamed " the wonders " and the members are speeding their way to fame . 
the gigs are getting better , their fame is increasing , and they have the fastest selling album in playtone records history . 
the band is invited to appear in a feature film , and , they then fly out to hollywood to appear on television . 
after the appearance on television , things start to fall apart . 
two of the members of the band pretty much disappear , and things are not working out well between jimmy and guy . 
will the band work it out , or will they split up and go on their own separate journeys towards success ? 
that thing you do ! , complete with a nifty original song that actually sounded authentic , is a fun and enjoyable movie that , although it doesn't become clear if it wants to be a comedy , drama , or romance , is a well-made look into the world of music . 
tom hanks' directorial debut was a good one and should lead to more work for him . 

when _star wars_ came out some twenty years ago , the image of traveling throughout the stars has become a commonplace image . 
when the millenium falcon moves throughout the stars , we see constellations , meteor showers , and cool space-ships . 
when han solo goes light speed , the stars change to bright lines , going towards the viewer in lines that converge at an invisible point . 
cool . 
_october sky_ offers a much simpler image--that of a single white dot , traveling horizontally across the night sky . 
was it really only forty years ago , when sputnik was launched , and that before then , no satellites ever existed ? 
have we become so technologically advanced that we have forgotten that it was nearly two generations ago where people stood outside to breathlessly see a then-technological achievement , even though it was from the russians ? 
it sounds hokey , but when that scene occurs near the beginning of _october sky_ , i found myself caught up with the enthusiasm of homer hickam , played by jake gyllenhaal . 
determined to make a dent in the space race , he becomes transfixed with his desire to make a rocket that could fly like the best of them . 
it is films like this that we know the ending as we buy the ticket . 
when lovely teacher miss riley ( played by laura dern ) , suggests that he enters his findings into the national science fair , we know exactly who is going to win . 
but the joy in a film like this is in the little details . 
for example , homer is clearly not the strongest student in his class . 
if he has any strengths whatsoever , it is an undeterring vision , and a good organizer . 
it means that he may have to lose his reputation by associating with the nerdiest kid in school , who knows more about rocket science than he does . 
it means that if his father forbids him to shoot rockets on company property ( that is , the entire coal-mining town ) , he must walk eight miles one way , just to set up the rockets , which will fail , fail , fail , and fail again . 
homer+s dad is played by chris cooper , a favorite actor of mine since _lone star_ . 
here he plays the antithesis of the character he played in _matewan_ : instead of organizing union rallies , he is the head of the coal-miners , who is constantly wringing his hands against the unions . 
this is will be one of the great unnoticed performances of the year : note how multi-dimensional his character is . 
he is his son+s last nemesis , as one who most likely interferes with his son+s dreams . 
but he truly loves his son , and wants to see him succeed the only way he knows how . 
through coal-mining . 
because of his character , we can see how far we+ve come . 
the revolution of modern technology has allowed for us to see society advanced at a rate far faster than any generation before us . 
we don+t understand that there were the generations from the industrial revolution who knew of no other way to raise a family . 
the paradigm was shifting under the father+s feet , and he knew of no other life . 
so _october sky_ , far from being merely a feel-good inspirational film , offers much food for thought . 
and this is the best type of inspirational film ; the one that you take something with you . 
btw , the final image of the film is just as simple , is as strong a contrast as the aforementioned horizontal-moving white dot against the night-sky background . 
another commonplace image , to be sure , but it must have been breathtaking forty years ago . 

staring , george clooney , arnold schwarzenegger , chris o'donnell and uma thurman with alicia silverstone . 
well to start this off i'd just like to say a couple things . 
first is , i miss michael keaton , i miss tim burton and would much prefer to think that these last two batman films are all like a dallas dream sequence . 
not even from the first film was batman really the 'star' though he was damn close in the first couple anyway . 
in 'batman forever' and now in 'batman & robin' he's almost pushed to being a bit player . 
i can't really say if clooney ( who regardless was better than kilmer ) was a very good batman or not . 
he's given next to nothing to do at all , he might as well not have been there and it wouldn't have made much difference . 
now , joel schumacher has said that he refuses to bend to the masses that have hated his films and cheered for the return of buton that he wont make batman brooding and dark . 
fine , i mean granted 'batman returns' while being an awsome film was a bit to dark sometimes . 
yet his bright neon , campy style is just killing anything this series meant to me . 
i'm usually very easy on films . 
i loved 'con air' and other films some critics have slammed . 
granted that film really was paper thin , cliche ridden , except for one thing , it was fun . 
there is virtually no fun in this film at all . 
i couldn't have cared less . 
it'll thrill the little ones as theres no violence really , none everyone comes out fine in the end like those old tv shows where it ends with everyone laughing . 
schwarzenegger is awful , i mean really , really bad . . . 
and this is coming from a regular fan of his work . 
i love his movies most of the time and the basic reason is he never says much in any of them . 
he talks all to often in this movie . 
i would have much prefered to have seen patric stewart in the roll . 
i believe to truely like a film you have to care about at least someone in a film . 
i liked alfred but the reason behind it is a cheap shot . 

jacques tati's 1953 classic " les vacances de m . hulot " ( also known as " mr . hulot's vacation , " in english ) ought to be the textbook on how to do non ? dialogue comedy in film . 
the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly , and the film operates on the paper ? thin premise that monsieur hulot , played by tati himself , is awkward and clumsy and generally manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week's vacation . 
yet the film had me beside myself laughing more consistently than any in recent memory . 
part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags . 
slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated and even crude form of comedy , but i think part of the reason for this is that it often seems forced : you can only see movie characters start running after something and then crash face-first into a pole so many times before you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there in the first place or why these people don't watch where they're going . 
in " les vacances de m . hulot , " the gags build upon each other and often start out relatively low-key . 
in one sequence , for example , hulot is painting the side of his small row boat on the beach when , while his back is turned , the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves , washes away , then comes back up on the other side of the boat . 
while crossing over to get the can , hulot steps in the boat and unknowingly cracks it . 
when he actually takes the boat out into the water , it breaks in half , but the two halves flip up against each other , trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin and panic on the beach ensues . 
tati doesn't waste a single opportunity for humor ; scenes that might have yielded one joke in most comedies are good for at least four or five in this film . 
it has been said that comedy relies on frustrating the audience's expectations , and " les vacances de m . hulot " succeeds brilliantly in that area as well . 
tati accomplishes this largely through a sort of deadpan understatement . 
when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volume , no fights or shouting matches ensue ; instead , the waiter calmly walks in and shuts off the power in the room , disconnecting the record player and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in the dark . 
tati also uses running gags to this effect , allowing them to keep running far longer than most comedy directors would ; more often than not , we can see them coming and think , " oh , he's not going to do that again , " but , lo and behold , he does . 
for example , there is a recurring joke in which hulot's noisy , sputtering car engine wakes everyone in the middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel's lights coming on one by one . 
then this image turns up again in the finale , which i will not give away other than to say that involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce . 
the ending is one of two elements that really make this a four-star film as opposed to merely an above-average , clever comedy . 
as much as i was laughing during this film , i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati had to top himself at the end to really make this work as a complete viewing experience ; suffice it to say that he did . 
the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters . 
it easily could have turned the tables on hulot and had the other guests exact some kind of revenge on him ; alternatively , it could have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons . 
instead , tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else and invites the audience to like them , however strange or irritating they might seem . 
 " les vacances de m . hulot " is not subtitled , but the dialogue is sparse and for the most part not terribly essential to the flow of events . 
anyone with a taste for this kind of absurd humor ought to make this film their next rental from the video store . 
note : " les vacances de m . hulot " was not rated by the mpaa . 
it would at most receive a pg rating . 

look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end ! 
i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse ! 
unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it . 
van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . ) 
without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck . 
being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . ) 
director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . ) 
the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time . 
suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original . 
sadly , that did not occur . 
it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen . 
in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression ! 
from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully ! 
mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i . 
jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point . 
sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it . 
mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory . 
anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen . 
at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast . 
the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates . 
he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice . 
the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk . 
there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film . 
van sant has made a boring film . 
all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now . 
what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite . 
van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? ) 
these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter . 
definitely not hitchcock's intention ! 
at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score . 
if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point . 
aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience . 
there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting . 
in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 

warning ! : may contain some mild spoilers and offensive material . 
rated : r ( ! ) for sexual content , crude and sexual humor , and some nudity . . 
 ( a mild r rating ) 
starring : rob schneider , oded fehr , eddie griffin , arija bareikis , amy poehler , norm mcdonald . 
running time : 88 minutes 
 " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is simply a hilarious good-natured comedy that may offend some , but underneath all it's crude humor and sexual content is a sweet little love story that is surprisingly involving . 
it isn't any kind of cinematic classic , but it's a very very funny comedy that keeps us entertained until the end credits which themselves are funny too . 
it has all it needs to be a breezy entertaining comedy : the acting is up to pace and some of the performances quite funny , the screenplay is witty and smart , and the whole story is sweet and cute . 
deuce bigalow ( rob schneider ) is your typically average guy : he cleans fish tanks for a living and gets an average of 10 bucks for it . 
though one might call him a loser , deuce gets a job he would never thought he would get . 
he gets to clean the tank for a male gigolo ( oded fehr ) and gets offered to watch over his place while he goes on a trip . 
trying to be like him he hangs upside down from a pole and accidentally pushes off the fishtank and burns his cabinets . 
the thing is now he has to try and find $6 , 000 dollars in three weeks to make sure everything looks right again . 
so he decides to go " man-whoring " and to his luck gets the oddest people on earth : an over-weight woman who decidedly wants to eat everything in site , a woman with narcolepsy who sleeps all the time , a woman who has sudden screaming outbursts , and a woman he can't stop thinking about . 
he charges $10 but he is willing to negotiate . 
from now on he is considered deuce bigalow : male gigolo . 
with non-stop laughs an a abundence of crude humor " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is sometimes like last years hit " there's something about mary " that is offensive but very funny . 
the screenplay by harris goldberg and rob schneider himself is a smart , clever and witty screenplay that seems to have been written with care to make is so hilariously funny . 
the characters in the film are all actually likable especially " jabba lady " with her big body but soft heart . 
there are actually times in the movie where i fell out of my chair laughing so hard that my stomach was killing me . 
even though i thought " toy story 2 " and " being john malkovich " were the funniest of the year " deuce bigalow " follows right behind them . 
the directing by mike mitchell is fantastic and shows he took time on the film . 
rob schneider gives a surprisingly endearing performance and when his romance develops with one of his customers kate ( arija bareikis ) it is a sweet romance that we get involved in and actually like being involved in it . 
 " deuce bigalow " is a good-natured film worth all the merit it can get . 
its not a classic or a masterpiece , it's just a comedy that we don't feel bad about watching . 
sure it may come off as offensive and may come off as dumb sometimes , but you cannot deny that it isn't funny . 
 " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is no disappointment . 
its a fast paced , entertaining sweet and hilarious comedy that may be destined to become a cult classic . 
fans of schneider will not be disappointed and fans of crude but nice comedies will not either . 
for some reason the film garnered an r rating but with no " f words " or extensive use of sexual content or explicit nudity i was really wondering why the film was r . a mild r to put it to the least , but even if your under 17 or above at least 13 this film is good enough for you to see . 
don't try to be one of those people who make so much of a film that they do not like it , just sit back , laugh and enjoy the movie . 

 " desperate measures " is a generic title for a film that's beyond generic . 
it's also a depressing waste of talent , with the solid team of michael keaton and andy garcia unthankfully thrown thankless lead roles , not to mention once-cool director barbet schroeder sadly continuing his string of not-cool flicks -- this thriller is more " before and after " than " reversal of fortune . " 
the movie is a big disappointment , and yet it's somewhat easy to see what motivated such big names to attach themselves to it -- the premise is both promising and intriguing . 
too bad the execution's all wrong , though , because the set-up of " desperate measures " boasts some rather enticing elements that deserve to be put to far better use . 
san francisco cop frank connor ( garcia ) is a single parent with a troubling dilemma -- his son matt ( joseph cross ) is stricken with cancer which only a bone marrow transplant can push into remission . 
even worse , the only compatible donor is violent sociopath peter mccabe ( michael keaton ) , currently serving a life sentence for multiple murders and other various crimes against society . 
connor tries his best to convince mccabe to go along with the surgery ; he's at first reluctant , but reconsiders after he realizes he can plan his escape at the hospital . 
when he does make a run for it , connor offers close pursuit , but for different reasons than his superiors ( including the crusty brian cox ) -- they want to take mccabe down , while connor needs to keep him alive , or all hope is lost for his little boy . 
one misstep " desperate measures " makes is in its underdevelopment of matt's illness . 
what's needed are more details as to exactly why mccabe is the only bone marrow match that works ; there would seem to be other possible contenders somewhere in the country , and thus many of the ways that connor endangers the lives of himself and those around him by attempting to keep mccabe alive are just a little too hard to swallow . 
take , for example , a scene where mccabe is trying to make a getaway by climbing over an elevated passage tunnel connecting two sections of the hospital . 
the police have their spotlight and guns aimed right on him , and what does connor do ? 
he shoots the spotlight out so that mccabe can continue his flight . 
connor knows very well what dangerous deeds this guy is capable of , and yet never seems to think that mccabe will eventually get to and try to harm his son . 
whatever . 
to be fair , though , the lack of story background is the least of the movie's problems . 
first and foremost is how cheaply " desperate measures " trades the potential of it's opening scenes for the routine action ballistics of its final hour . 
once mccabe escapes , the film becomes the fugitive in reverse and with no thrills . 
there are countless scenes where the good guys catch up to keaton only to have him grab a hostage and get away . 
also , the movie is so intent on giving you a hoot-inducing , lip-smacking villain ( the ads have compared peter mccabe to hannibal lechter , natch ) that it completely casts garcia's frank connor by the dullsville wayside ; " desperate measures " appears to like its antagonist so much more than its protagonist , and the movie's head-scratcher of a send-off confirms this . 
there is some good to be found amongst this mess , particularly in the acting department . 
cast against type , michael keaton's understated menace is highly effective . 
although he's not given much believable to work with , andy garcia plays off a taut emotional chord . 
joseph cross , as garicia's ailing son , is surprisingly unsentimental , and marcia gay harden lends solid support as a doctor who becomes a major player in the unfolding chaos . 
this cast does its best to camouflage the sorry plot as it chugs towards an inevitably happy ending , but most is lost . 
it goes without saying that " desperate measures " needs an operation of its very own . 

john carpenter directed this stylish and gory vampire flick to which has it's good side and it's bad . 
it's held up by some good performances and dazzling special effects leading up to an ending that's pretty satisfying . 
james woods gives an outstanding performance that almost covers up the movie . 
the good side : some neat scenes of vampires and violence . 
the bad : no scares . 
yes that's right , even though being directed by one of horror's most cherished directors , 'vampires' is the least bit scary , if not at all . 
james woods stars as jack a vampire hunter out to stop the plans of the 'master' vampire valek played by thomas ian griffith whom wants vampires to walk in the daylight . 
daniel baldwin plays his sidekick montoya , a wise-cracking guy who really isn't that funny . 
in the opening scene jack along with montoya and the team of vampire hunters , find an abandoned house to which vampire occupy . 
of course we all know sunshine kills vampires , and that is just how they kill these vampires : hooking them to ropes and dragging them outside letting them burn to death . 
after throwing a party for what happened , the vampires that did not die come back to trash it . 
they kill almost all of jack's team , leaving only a few alive . 
sheryl lee plays a prostitute katrina who was bitten by valek , but not yet turned into a vampire . 
she is rescued by jack and ? flees with them on their search for valek . 
they have to fight they're way against vampires , leading up to a finale that is well-done with great special effects . 
'vampires' definately could have been done better . 
the make-up , special effects and story are first rate , but there is no scares or terror that the film could have had . 
it to me had more humor than horror , almost being compared to 'fright night' with the mix of violence and comedy . 
john carpenter does a great job of directing this film . 
he eases through some tough times and saves the flaws , which are noticeable but forgettable . 
the script is clever and funny , with many lines that make us laugh out loud . 
i much enjoyed 'vampires' with a few exceptions . 
it's one of those films you see but don't take to heart . 
you enjoy the time you spent and go on . 
the recently released 'psycho' is the same way , it's not as good as you'd hope but it is fun and entertaining . 
'vampires' is a good horror flick with no scares but plenty of other content to please the viewer . 

although i had not been a viewer of the " rugrats " television series , i went into their first animated feature film , " the rugrats movie , " with a positive attitude . 
the trailer looked cute enough , after all . 
after seeing it , i think the words in my recent " antz " review , in which i stated that it was the worst film of its type since 1995's " the pebble and the penguin , " were a bit premature . 
 " the rugrats movie , " is bottom-of-the-barrel children's fare at its worst , and starts to make , " antz " look good in comparison . 
as in the show , " the rugrats movie , " is about a group of very little friends , ranging from babies to a three-year-old . 
the head of the group , tommy pickles ( e . g . 
daily ) , becomes distraught when his mother has a newborn baby named dill ( get it ? 
dill pickles ? . . . hardee-har-har ! ) and is informed by his three-year-old cousin , anjelica ( cheryl chase ) , that the new babies always take all of the attention away from the other children . 
when the other children , chuckie , and twins lil and phil , suggest taking dill back to the hospital , tommy goes along with it , but on their way there , they crash in the forest , and become lost , running into wolves and circus monkeys , among other things . 
 " the rugrats movie , " judging from the idea of being lost in the woods , could have been a potentially fun family film , and there were many different things that could have been done with the story . 
so what did the writers choose to do ? 
why , they set up a protracted , cliched scene where the children almost go over a waterfall , of course ! 
for the youngest of children ( ages 3-7 ) , " the rugrats movie , " may very well entertain them , judging from the audience i saw this with . 
of course , if you looked around at all of the older kids and their parents , they were all desperately struggling to stay awake , and that included me . 
for an adult , " the rugrats movie , " is a piece of garbage . 
the plotline is unoriginal and the writing has absolutely no wit or charm . 
there isn't one laugh to be had in the film , nor is there any excitement . 
if anything is even marginally good in the picture , it is the bright animation style , so it is especially unfortunate that it wasn't to service a more quality film . 
 " the rugrats movie " is doa from the start . 
i am all for a worthwhile family movie , but sometimes an animated film comes along that is simply awful . 
as said before , young children may like it , but even they deserve better than this . 
for adults , it is a nearly unbearable , excruciating chore to sit through . 
as for me , " the rugrats movie , " is not the worst of the year , nor is it the most deeply hated , but it is the most boring . 
parents : do yourselves a favor and take your kids to see the rerelease of , " the wizard of oz . " 
that is a picture that contains a great deal of magic and wonder , two things of which , " the rugrats movie , " is completely missing . 

 " houston . we have a serious problem . " 
after making " mission : impossible " , brian de palma has a lot to live up to . 
by making an epic science fiction and inviting great cast and talented crew , he hopes to reach the modern audience . 
and the possibilities are certainly there , but the result is a great disaster . 
starting in a near future , with a prologue copied from " apollo 13 " , de palma slowly builds up his " story " . 
the human race has already set foot on mars . 
a research expedition has vanished without trace on the red planet and another one has been sent to find out what happened . 
this is basically the whole plot . 
so it's hard to imagine that it can be stretched to 2 hours . 
but de palma manages to do that . 
it is not a very good achievement . 
as we follow this expedition to mars and watch them slowly float in space , the hardest thing to do is stay awake . 
the film's major problem is that it tries to seem more clever than it is . 
david mamet's dialogue , while trying to seem natural , is distant and simply fake . 
de palma and mamet wanted to combine action with a thought provoking plot . 
the result is more like an unsuccessful mutation of kubrick's " 2001 : a space odyssey " , " apollo 13 " and " godzilla " . 
to make time pass , the creators have inserted several " refreshing " scientific details , that would not convince a half-crazed frog . 
it consists of multiple copies and direct ripp-offs from several great science fiction films and stories . 
when it finally presents an almost original idea , it falls flat because of its uncovered stupidity . 
i can't even call this film predictable , since no one with a healthy imagination can come up with something like this . 
sometimes it gets so cheesy , that you'll start laughing when you're supposed to cry and cry when you're supposed to laugh . 
you'll see enormous sandstorms , hear mysterious sounds and , last but not least , on this " constantly surprising " tour you'll see -- an alien . 
it's really hard to find comparisons to such an experience , and i know that i've never said that before ( i thought i never would ) , but " lost in space " is actually better . 
that's an achievement in itself ! 
director brian de palma has stroke gold with " untouchables " that became an instant american classic . 
it is for this film that he will be remembered , while all his other failures will be forgotten . 
he'll live to fight another day ! 
i send the actors my condolences , since they truly do try to transform into their undeveloped and dull characters . 
and both the cinematography , production design and art direction are very decent . 
it is because of the achievement of 254 people , that i rate this film 2/10 . 
unfortunately their hard work was in vain . 
if you have problems with insomnia , i recommend you this film . 
if you're not asleep within the first half hour , consult your doctor . 

it happens every year -- the days get longer , the weather gets warmer and the studios start releasing their big-budget blockbusters . 
this year's crop already seems inferior to that of past summers , even 1997's lackluster trio of batman & robin , the fifth element and the lost world . 
the marketing blitz in 1998 has been centered on godzilla ( " heeere , lee-zerd , lee-zerd . . . " ) , which doesn't make me optimistic about future summers . 
godzilla is , of course , based on a series of cult movies ( translation : really bad movies only a few people can tolerate ) from japan that turn up really late at night on ted turner-owned cable stations . 
that this big-budget remake won't rise above its roots is fairly obvious . 
the credits show us the origin of godzilla . 
in five words : nuclear explosion creates giant lizard . 
sounds like an enquirer headline , doesn't it ? 
the mushroom cloud is followed by the inevitable " discovery " sequence . 
this time , a japanese guy is eating noodles with chopsticks while watching sumo wrestling ( if that ain't a stereotype . . . ) 
when he discovers the telltale radar blip . 
people die . 
cut to our protagonist , played by matthew broderick . 
he makes his first appearance wearing headphones , warbling along to " singin' in the rain . " 
it's a none-too-subtle sign that he wishes he were in a classier movie . 
no dice , bueller . 
from the beginning , poor matthew has to do embarassing things like fondle giant earthworms and stand in godzilla's enormous footprint . 
every disaster movie has to have a know-it-all scientist , and this time broderick is it . 
as the world's leading expert on radiated earthworms ( and wouldn't you love to have that printed on your business card ? ) , 
broderick is invaluable to the government . 
he immediately dispels vicki lewis' theory that godzilla is a dinosaur because , hey , you can't take seriously the intellectual arguments of " newsradio " cast members . 
broderick instead hits the nail on the head , announcing godzilla is a radiated lizard . 
 " the radiation isn't an anamoly , " he announces , and lightning strikes . 
 " i believe this is a mutated abberation , " he continues , and lightning strikes again . 
it's vocabulary lightning , you see , activated by words of four syllables or more . 
meanwhile , we're introduced to our new york cast , headed by an ambitious broadcast journalist ( maria patillo ) , broderick's former love . 
gee , what are the odds their paths will cross again at a dramatically important time ? 
poor patillo has been trying to get ahead in the news business for years but has been held down by heartless anchorman harry shearer . 
italian cameraman hank azaria tells her she's not ruthless enough : " nice doesn't get you anywhere in this town . 
it's dog eat dog . " 
actually , it's lizard eat city , as godzilla emerges from the atlantic to begin a rampage on the big apple's core . 
the filmmakers provide us with a one-note drunk fisherman who hooks godzilla . 
 " i think i've got a bite , " he announces as a gigantic tidal wave begins rushing toward him . 
you can guess what happens next . 
similar reactions spring forth as the monster prowls the city . 
hearing the rumble of approaching footsteps , one new yorker remarks , " please don't tell me that's another parade . " 
please don't tell me that's the best line you could come up with . 
mayor ebert is not pleased . 
played by the principal from " head of the class , " he continually makes the wrong decision when given an option , and bickers with his assistant gene . 
i guess the filmmakers knew they'd be getting two thumbs down from the critics and didn't even bother to kiss ass . 
the problem is , if you're going to attack siskel and ebert , you should at least make it funny . 
dialogue like , " didn't we agree that we weren't going to have any sweets until after the election ? " 
followed by , " back off , gene , " just doesn't work for me . 
other lame running jokes include everyone mispronouncing the broderick character's last name and frenchman jean reno's inability to find a good cup of coffee in new york . 
there's even more fun to be had as godzilla progresses . 
as the beast heads back into hiding , broderick suggests the military lure it out with food . 
cue twelve dump trucks , all dropping fish into a new york intersection . 
 ( broderick : that's a lot of fish . ) 
that ambush fails , but broderick soon figures out why godzilla came to new york by buying $50 worth of home pregnancy tests and running lizard blood through them . 
yep , godzilla's with children , which makes you wonder just what kind of creature would be horny enough to have sex with godzilla . 
that's until broderick explains that godzilla reproduces asexually , like linda tripp . 
godzilla comes to us from the makers of independence day , so it has a lot of dumb action scenes , destructive special effects and shallow subplots . 
look no further than patillo's betrayal of broderick ( patillo : what have i done , animal ? 
what have i become ? ) and the climactic " godzilla's nest " sequence in madison square garden . 
the main difference is , independence day was about the experience . 
it had a real global , patriotic element to it , and some genuinely fun characters . 
godzilla has lots of rain and lightning , reptilian action ripped off from jurassic park and endless product placement from the likes of kodak , blockbuster , juicy fruit , swatch , sprint and bumble bee tuna . 
yes , bumble bee actually paid to be known as the official tuna of godzilla . 
that fact alone is twice as interesting as anything in the movie . 

i still can't figure out why people went in droves to see this movie . 
now before you go assuming i'm some sort of high brow snob , who can't appreciate a little dumb humor , let me say that i love cheap humor . 
i thought there's something about mary was one of the funniest films that i have ever seen and it was certainly one of the best films of 1998 . 
low brow adolescent humor can be a lot of fun , the problem with the waterboy is that it is just low brow and adolescent , there is no humor component . 
i wanted to like the waterboy , i really did . 
i think i only laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movie . 
actually , i smiled a couple of more times on top of that . 
not a great record for a 90-minute film . 
the problem with the waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies . 
those responsible for this mess seem to think that the sheer fact that sandler walks around using a goofy voice and playing dumb the entire movie is a substitute for actual funny material . 
nothing could be further from the truth , as matter of fact , sandler's idiot voice started to get on my nerves at points in this film . 
it's really a shame too , because this film had the potential to be very funny . 
i personally believe that sandler is probably a very talented comedian , it's just that so far he hasn't been able to find the right film to showcase his talents . 
if his only talent is making goofy voices and playing morons , my guess is that his career in the movies will go down the same road as the vast majority of the former stars of saturday night live . 
most of whom are now happily no longer in the entertainment industry . 
sandler plays a 31-year-old , somewhat mentally challenged , waterboy for a college football team . 
the team's somewhat mentally disturbed coach ( henry winkler ) realizes that his waterboy has a great deal of pent-up rage , which , if harnessed properly , would make him a force to be reckoned with on the football field . 
you can figure out the rest from here . 
sandler joins the team and this once lowly waterboy becomes a football star . 
as i said , the film had a great deal of potential . 
the idea was a decent one , but the main potential of this movie is a result of the cast . 
all of whom are very good , just hamstrung by really , really , lousy material . 
even sandler , annoying goofy voice and all , has enough charisma and natural comedic ability to overcome some of his bad material . 
even as unfunny as his character is , i still found myself rooting for him throughout the film . 
but it is the supporting cast that i feel most badly about . 
if their material had been just a bit better , this film could have been such a funny movie . 
fairuza balk plays sandler's leather-wearing biker-chick love interest and does a great job playing sleazy and sexy at the same time . 
winkler is great as the coach who uses a " coaching for dummies " -style book to help him get through games . 
the real standout though , is kathy bates . 
even with some of the worst material of her career to deal with , she is still a treat to watch in her role as sandler's overprotective and overbearing mama . 
even with the performances of bates and winkler , there is absolutely no way i would recommend this movie . 
although i get the distinct impression that without them , this film would have ranked in negative numbers for me . 
which is sad , because i can't really put my finger on a particular element of the movie and single it out as the cause of the disaster that it became . 
it's obvious that those involved , specifically the actors , tried very hard to make what they thought was going to be a funny movie . 
it's just too bad that 99 percent of all of the jokes fell flat . 

warren beatty returns to the screens in the funniest , craziest and hard hitting movie in his career . 
based on a story concocted by himself , and also written by beatty , bulworth gives a good insight of what beatty thinks of the american government system . 
beatty stars as senator jay bulworth , who's going through a nervous breakdown . 
after hiring someone to kill him , he completely changes his campaign strategy and tells the honest truth about what's _really_ happening in american politics , much to the annoyance of assistant dennis murphy ( platt . ) 
instead of everyone hating him , the american public love him . 
however , inside his party , more people want to kill him than just the hired assassin . 
and he also strikes a relationship with black girl nina ( berry . ) 
it's remarkable that this film was released at all . 
much more open than the rather subdued primary colours , bulworth barely gives the american politic system a good name . 
the outrageous remarks bulworth makes to his potential voters are very funny , and also somewhat true . 
it's great that beatty isn't afraid to let loose on a subject . 
talking of beatty , he's excellent in the role of the demented senator , clearing having fun . 
and seeing warren beatty have fun is a rare sight indeed . 
even in dick tracy , he was the most straighten face actor . 
 ( then again , he was the only characters face we could completely see . ) 
the film gives an opportunity for the 61 year old beatty to indulge in some rapping , which he does with gusto ( and also quite well . ) 
and seeing beatty as a 'homeboy' has to be seen to be believed . 
it's nice to see that beatty can laugh at himself . 
second best is oliver platt as the flustered , coke snorting assistant , who goes over the top when he finally snaps . 
halle berry is fine , and sexy , as the intellectual nina , who comes to like the senator . 
also popping up in the supporting cast is paul sorvino wit h a strange accent , laurie metcalf as the exact same characters she's also played , and christine baranski of cybill fame as bullworths wife , who all contribute to the fun . 
and , this being a political film , the ubiquitous larry king makes an appearance , as , * shock * , himself . 
the writing and directing , both by beatty , are above par . 
the direction is very nearly sitcom like , but suits the film perfectly , and both the politics are gangland parts are handled well . 
the script is funny , and the raps are actually well produced and humorous , and quite clever . 
they're not cringe inducing , at least . 
the script makes many points about society in america today , and isn't afraid to make any bold statements about what is a flawed system . 
best of all , the film is thought provoking , but directed and written in such a way that the film feels as light as a feather , and is very entertaining . 
there's also a great rap soundtrack with some well chosen tunes . 
bulworth is a film with many advantages , and few flaws . 
perhaps it could be somewhat embarrassing to see a 61 year old man rapping , but beatty does it so well it's irrelevant . 
in fact , there's very little against bulworth , except for the language which is very heavy , but then again it should be expected . 
bulworth , then , is well worth watching . 
a david wilcock review ? 1999 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 

post-chasing amy , a slew of love-triangle movies : this month we have kissing a fool , co-starring amy's own lee , and april brings us the object of my affection , which may as well be titled chasing allan , for it is the story of a woman who falls in love with her gay roommate . 
 ( to be absolutely six degrees of kevin bacon about it , that film stars schwimmer's friend jennifer aniston . ) 
if only kevin smith could write them all . . . 
schwimmer stars as womanizing chicago sportscaster max , who falls in love with his best friend jay ( lee ) 's book editor samantha ( avital ) a mere twenty-four hours after meeting her . 
they are soon engaged , and max , because of his own raging libido , grows suspicious of samantha's fidelity . 
he convinces jay to flirt with samantha during the development of his book , to " test her " . 
the trouble is , jay might be secretly in love with her . 
to stretch this flat , sitcom premise to feature length , the plot is framed by a climactic wedding , at which bonnie hunt recounts the triangular tale--the events leading up to the nuptials--to an annoying fat man and his silly girlfriend . 
hunt has the best comic timing of anyone in the film ; schwimmer can spin bad dialogue into mildly humorous dialogue ; and lee , poor lee , is miscast . 
so hysterically funny in chasing amy , here he is forced to repress his comic instincts : to swear , to yell , to talk about oral sex . . . 
the script's idea of a character trait is to stress that jay is a " sensitive man " , and then show him drinking pepto bismol when he's stewing over his girl trouble . 
as for avital , an israeli actress , she is warm and sweet , but we don't know anything about her character other than that it takes her an incredibly long time to realize the most obvious things . 
she also too closely resembles the stunningly beautiful kari wuhrer , who plays schwimmer's assistant and personal temptress , turning that particular subplot into an unintentional riff on vertigo . 
there are a handful , a smattering , of good scenes in kissing a fool . 
i enjoyed a moment in a comedy club , during which jay gets up and asks " has anyone here ever hated their girlfriend so much you wanted to kill her ? " 
over and over until he's booted off stage . 
there are also a few obviously improvised lines that are fresher than anything that's on the page . 
kissing a fool is never as clever as the thursday night joke-machine friends that spawned schwimmer's movie career , so save yourself eight dollars and watch three episodes of that series back to back . 

i don't appreciate it when a thriller manipulates the viewer into thinking the plot is interesting , when in fact it's ludicrous . 
in the case of the general's daughter , the plot is more than capable of intriguing you to a certain point . 
but at this juncture in the story , the movie begins to fall apart like a crumbling cookie . 
this predictable summer thriller is only sporadically involving , and that is unfortunately not enough to compensate for all of it's detailed flaws . 
get past one moment early on where john travolta exercises his southern accent , and you're likely to survive this entire movie . 
travolta plays criminal investigations divisions officer paul brenner , who's working undercover at a military base when another situation arises : the apparent rape and murder of a young female officer ( leslie stefanson ) . 
it turns out that the victim is the daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) . 
let the investigation begin . 
with the assistance of fellow cid investigator sarah sunhill ( played rather on-the-sidelines by madeleine stowe ) , brenner uncovers what appears to be an intricate and bizarre homicide case . 
things begin to get marginally engrossing when we meet colonel moore ( james woods ) , a former commanding officer of the deceased who has a few secrets up his sleeve . 
woods submits another scene-stealing performance here as he oozes authority , surrounded by clouds of smoke emitted from his cigar . 
with echoes of his supporting role in true crime , in which he duked it out with clint eastwood in enjoyably profane verbal exchanges , he makes every moment believable . 
here though , the intense dialogue comes care of confrontations with travolta , as the two send mindful , knowing glares across the room . 
there are many scenes such as this in the general's daughter , in which the veteran cast performs splendidly under pressure , but the circumstances that tie these meetings together are difficult to absorb . 
director simon west ( con air ) , shows a watchful eye of delivering a stylish looking thriller , but he fails miserably when it comes to the intellectual part of it . 
the general's daughter is , more often than not , a predictable and unexciting mess . 
it does not help matters that the plot is virtually actionless , dragging it's heels all the way at a mind-numbing snails pace . 
a few brief action scenes , marvelously handled in the editing department , show that the movie could have delivered such a more proficient package . 
from a director who does such a great job of staging explosions and miraculous stunts , i suggest west should stick with mindless , rip-roaring action features and attempt to avoid future projects like this . 
still , the movie is certainly not without it's merits . 
the acting is very good from the majority of the experienced cast . 
the performances range from commanding ( travolta ) to electric ( woods ) to stiff-as-a-board ( cromwell , who doesn't show off his real talents here ) . 
madeleine stowe manages to hold her own for a while , but as the female lead in an action-thriller , she doesn't pull through sufficiently . 
one of the problems with the execution is that it's very predictable . 
>from minute one , i had few doubts about the identity of the killer in question . 
the script even unwillingly points him out for us , using familiar techniques to hide his guilt until the unmasking toward the end . 
in all fairness , we've seen many of the devices used in the general's daughter put to greater effect in other films . 
the secrets behind the girl's mysterious death are explained gradually , but by the resolution we have tunneled through so much malarkey that it feels unnecessary and surprisingly silly . 
the general's daughter is not a terrible movie , and it is involving enough to sustain a viewer's attention span for a certain period of time . 
but it just could have been so much better . 

krippendorf's tribe is a formula comedy . 
done poorly , formulaic comedies might seem to signify the downfall of american cinema . 
however , every now and then , one emerges , like krippendorf's tribe , that actually works . 
professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) , the renowned anthropologist , is in trouble . 
his university gave him a hefty grant to discover a lost tribe in new guinea . 
however , he found . . . nothing . 
his wife has recently died , and he has spent the remainder of the grant money in raising his three kids : shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) and edmund ( carl michael lidner ) . 
tonight , he is expected to lecture on his newfound tribe . 
rather than break the news ( and face the consequences of misusing his funds ) , he invents a tribe : the shelmikedmu ( named after his kids ) . 
however , one lie begets another as he is not only required to deliver filmed proof of the shelmikedmu , but his research becomes a popular phenomenon . 
soon , professor krippendorf is caught up in an elaborate ruse in which he films mockumentary footage starring his children as the shelmikedmu tribal members . 
his efforts are hampered by the boasts of an over-eager colleague , veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , and the intense scrutiny of a rival anthropologist , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) . 
krippendorf's tribe does seem to require a little suspension of disbelief . 
no one seems to question the way his field documentaries seem to be shot with multiple cameras , or that his newly discovered tribesmen have startlingly blue eyes . 
luckily , as the film builds momentum , that suspension of disbelief is easy to come by . 
though there's some mild humor in the krippendorf family trying to pass themselves off as a lost tribe , the real humor of the film is in how james gets trapped in his ever increasing snowball of lies . 
the double meanings to many of the shelmikedmu appearances are enjoyable , and the comic timing required for some of the film's latter scenes is superb . 
richard dreyfuss is terrific as the hapless professor who soon loses control of his own imaginary tribe . 
jenna elfman's position as a romantic lead seems a bit forced at times , but she plays the part with extreme affability . 
even the kids , who in films like this tend to be a bit on the precocious side , are endearing and humorous . 
yes , the film does veer occasionally into some rather lowbrow humor , but it has the best excuse of all : it's funny . 
it may not go down as an all-time classic , but it certainly delivers what you expect from a comedy : plenty of laughs . 

along his carreer , mel gibson has collected several successes , not only from an economic point of view but also from an artistic point of view . 
for all that , i think no one could guess the skills and abilities now disclosed in braveheart . 
the australian actor decided to produce and direct a film about sir william wallace , a popular scotch hero of the 13th century , where he would also perform the principal role . 
accepting so huge challenge , mel gibson run the risk of stain all his work of years , with a suppoosed failure , just to see recognized , by everyone , all his potentialities and , that way , to consolidate his position in hollywood . 
it was , definitely , an enormous risk but i'm sure mel knew exactly well what he was going to face . 
braveheart is , in fact , a magnificent and magisterial film . 
for three hours we are completely absorbed by the narrative's rhyitm which never gives place to a single moment of monotony or uninterest . 
the william wallace's story is the story of so many others brave liberty's defenders who fought and gave the life for that essential value , along the centuries . 
seeing himself and his people victims of injustices and violent repression , william wallace dares to face the powerful edward i , king of england , in a war by the autonomy of scotland . 
as the victories succeed the number of fighters with wallace goes growing up . 
his courage and inteligence are admired by everyone , including the princess isabelle of wales , wife of edward's son . 
however , william wallace was also surrounded by enemies and some of them were closer than he thought . 
braveheart may not be an historically corrected movie but the nature of its message make us think about the importance that we give to liberty , nowadays . 
mel gibson directs with a lot of brilliancy a brilliant cast . 
patrick mcgoohan has a very nice performance as edward i , the king longshank . 
the scene when he waits for the death and loses his voice is really good . 
sophie marceau , as princess isabelle , has along the movie no more than fifteen minutes of performance but mel gibson gave to those minutes such a very special treatment that princess isabelle soon becomes one of the major characters in braveheart . 
i also liked the performances of angus macfadyen , as robert the bruce , and , of course , mel gibson , as william wallace . 
however , i think this time the mel gibson's work as director was much better than his work as actor . 
the excellent music composed by james horner is another thing that helps braveheart to be the success that it really is . 
when we join that music to the beautiful scotch landscapes , view by the camera of john toll , then we realize all the beauty of this film . 
braveheart is , in my opinion , one of the best movies of 1995 ! 
i've heard some people saying that mel gibson is gonna be a new david lean . 
for now , let's see if braveheart equalizes the 6 oscars of lawrence of arabia . 
it won't be easy ! 
it's gonna be one more challenge for mel gibson . 

review : a dog of flanders is the story of an adorable little boy named nello and his trials and tribulations in 19th century flanders . 
living with his grandfather jehan ( jack warden ) in poverty , nello finds happiness in his life in spite of difficult times ( they are renting a spare one-room cottage , and the greedy , malevolent landlord who owns it threatens to throw them `out of the house' if they don't pay the rent ) . 
nello also has a rather creative talent for drawing some of the most beautiful pictures that i have ever seen , in either a movie or in real life . 
 ( his hero is peter paul rubens , the great flemish painter of the 17th century . ) 
not that these are the only things that make nello's life happy , however . 
he has a dog of flanders , whom he names patrasche , who is a heroic rin-tin-tin of the 19th century , whom he rescues from his cruel , unkind master . 
in addition , he even has a best friend ( and future sweetheart ) in the lovely , wealthy aloise , whose father strongly disapproves of her hanging out with `lower-class' nello . 
 ( he thinks he's not good enough for her , and he would hate the idea of the two kids marrying . ) 
but then , he was a poor guy himself before he married ( as mentioned later on in the film ) . 
one day , nello encounters a mysterious , yet kindhearted artist named michel la grande ( played wonderfully by jon voight ) , who tells the boy to keep drawing from his heart , and that perhaps one day he might land a career in being an artist . 
and every christmas , there is a contest on which is the most beautiful painting of the year ; the winner getting a lot of money . 
eager to save his home ( and his aging , dying grandfather ) , nello willingly decides to become an artist , asking aloise to pose for him . 
one night , the two travel to a circus , where they have their fortune told ? one of the film's most delightful scenes ? that great happiness is destined for them . 
she gives the kids a ring , whom nello places on aloise's hand . 
 ; ) afterwards , the two kids have a rollickingly good time dancing around in front of circus performers . 
unfortunately , things are not all `la-dee-dah' in this tale . 
aloise's father finally becomes so angry with nello that he forbids him to ever see aloise again . 
bad enough that they can't see each other ( although we know nello and aloise , don't we ? ) , but that's only the start of nello's troubles . 
aloise's farm is burned down , and nello is wrongfully accused ( by the landord of his cottage ) for starting the fire in order to take revenge on being forbidden to see aloise . 
this decreases nello's reputation around the town , save aloise and her parents , and a kindly miller , william , who is very sweet to nello every time he drops by . 
matters get much worse for nello when his grandfather dies , and he has to pay for his funeral . 
but then things really get nasty when the landlord exiles nello from his own home ( for not paying his rental ) ? permanetly . 
this means that nello and patrasche have to starve and walk out in the cold , freezing wind . 
worst of all , the painting that he has desperately been working on during all this time , `the portrait of the princess' , fails to win the prize at the festival . 
now nello and patrasche are really depressed , and close to freezing to death . 
will nello be able to find any happiness in his life ? 
will patrasche save the day ? 
will nello make the fateful trip to join his mother and grandfather in paradise ? 
a dog of flanders is a delightful , heartwarming family film that is sure to entertain kids of all ages . 
even older ones who consider themselves too `sophisticated' for kiddie fare will be surprised to hear that this film is for grown-ups , too . 
there have been other movies of this ilk ( boy and dog ) , and while this one falls into that category , it is mostly a story about overcoming difficulties and finding a good home for yourself . 
move over ? or rather , roll over ? old yeller , this dog of flanders is a heartwarming delight . 
the cinematography , courtesy of walther van den ende is beautiful , and really adds to the powerful drama of the film . 
it also gives a feel of being in flanders ( the whole film was respectably shot in flanders ) . 
the music from richard friedman is also remarkable ; an evocative , poignant score that recaptures music from the 19th century . 
the opening song over the credits is very beautiful ( i hope the soundtrack is available ! ) , and there's a brief excerpt of `cheer up , charlie' from willy wonka and the chocolate factory ( sung by aloise , to nello , in another delightful scene ) . 
the cast is first-rate : jesse james and jeremy james kissner , who play nello , are some of the most endearing , adorable young stars i have ever seen in my whole life ( so are the girls who play aloise , madyline sweeten as the younger , and farren monet as the older ) . 
not that they are the only good stars , however . 
jack warden is ideal as jehan , eliciting just the right amount of humor and compassion required for the character . 
 ( the scenes involving him and nello are heartwarming , touching ones . ) 
also , bruce mcgill is charming as the kindly miller william . 
he's another one of my favorite characters in the film . 
but jon voight , as i mentioned before , is the perfect choice for michel . 
he brings a mysterious , yet gentle performance that makes us all feel good again when he reassures insecure nello that he * can * win the contest . 
but what makes this film fun to watch is how well-defined the characters are , and the pace of the story ( best of all , it has a happy ending ? though i will * not * give it away ; sorry ) is strong and powerful enough for us to identify with the characters . 
for the first time since the beginning of 1999 , there comes a film which doesn't rely on popular formula stuff , such as big-budget special effects , commercial rock soundtracks , or any of that stuff . 
this one relies on telling a fully character-oriented story , with just the right amount of heart , humor , and drama . 
that , to me , is what makes a dog of flanders all the more delightful . 
eleanor o'sullivan of `the home news & tribune' noticed this , and was kind and generous enough to welcome it : `for want of a better word , a glow surrounds a dog of flanders . 
its heart is in the right place and it engages you . 
you can guess where the film is going because this is well-traveled territory , but with pros like voight and appealing young performers like kissner , an often-told story is well worth a revisit . ' 
in addition , there were a couple of other enthusiasts , such as chicago-sun times and the washington post ( you should read their reviews ; they're really positive ) . 
other critics , however , were not so kind . 
stephen holden of `the new york times' had more than a share of beatings to lay upon a dog of flanders via pen writing . 
he found the film to be a `sea of sugary bromides' and condemned mr . voight's character as `hopelessly wooden ? adopts an accent even more indeterminate than the one he came up with for anaconda . ' 
in addition , `entertainment weekly' slam-dunked the film , condemning it as `the worst family film of the year . ' 
there have been so many other bad reviews like this , too . 
my suggestion : disregard the critics . 
they just have a big problem with touching family films , and one should never pay attention to them . 
this dog of flanders may only be a little `family' movie ( it probably won't be a big hit in the style of titanic , but then again no other film has been since then ) , but that is not a bad thing in and of itself . 
this is a story that is sure to warm your heart , and that is what really matters about a dog of flanders . 
it is also one of the better family films around this year . 
none of the other films i have seen this year ( though they were good ) have been so low-key and touching . 
if you're looking for family-style entertainment , look no further than this charming boy-and-dog yarn . 
go see it while you still can , for as i mentioned , it might not be a big bow-wow at the box office for a long time . 
see it while you can . 
there is really no need to compare a multi-million dollar blockbuster such as star wars : episode i ? the phantom menace or tarzan , or even the iron giant with a tender , sweet little family movie . 

this is the movie that could single-handedly bring " mystery science theater 3000 " out of cancellation . 
it's one of those movies that's so bad it's absolutely hilarious , due in no small part to its big star , supermodel cindy crawford . 
if you only remember one thing about fair game , it should be that it singlehandedly proves crawford should stick to the sports illustrated swimsuit issues . 
if you thought kathy ireland was laughable in alien from l . a . , you'll change your mind when you see fair game . 
ireland would win handfuls of oscars if this was her only competition . 
in a real casting coup , crawford plays a super-intelligent lawyer ( in a jogging bra , of course ) . 
we all know this is a stretch , the only legal opinion crawford has ever put forth being that she favors the death penalty for anyone who wears white after labor day . 
nonetheless , someone out there thought she'd make a good lawyer , but we're reminded of her true function in the movie when she takes two showers in a period of twenty minutes . 
and for you horny teenage boys out there , you actually get to see her topless for two seconds in the dark . . . 
come to think of it , that may have been a body double . 
cindy crawford isn't black , is she ? 
like i said , crawford is a lawyer with a bunch of russians after her . 
billy baldwin ( or is it stephen ? 
alec ? 
adam ? 
kim basinger ? ) is the police detective who has to save her life , time after time , chase after chase , explosion after explosion . 
there's absolutely nothing original about this movie . 
it's every cop show of the 70's mixed with every action thriller of the 80's and every technology- exploitation movie of the 90's . 
three decades of crap all in one place , driven further into the ground by crawford's complete lack of acting talent . 
and it's all completely predictable . 
you know the mistakes baldwin and crawford are going to make before they make them , you know when the " sexual tension " will finally end up in them consummating the relationship , you know when the villains will capture crawford so baldwin has to rescue her in the climax and you know the movie's going to suck from the first scene . 
the plot isn't really explained until the end . 
all we know is these russians have every detail about crawford in their computer . 
in the words of one of the villains , " we even know what size pantyhose she wears . " 
 ( yeah , you and every 14-year-old boy in america . ) 
he goes on to add , " we know more about her than she does . " 
 ( _that_ i find very easy to believe . ) 
i hope you enjoyed those two sample dialogue quotes , because i wrote down plenty of other bad ones ( " if it weren't for me , you'd still be pulling bananas out of your ass in cuba ! " ) 
because , you see , fair game is not only a showcase for recycled action cliches and terrible acting , but also some seriously bad dialogue . 
it all adds up to a really terrible movie that made me laugh in plenty of places i wasn't supposed to and grimace in places i was supposed to laugh . 
one more thing fair game has against it is some awful comic relief . 
would you laugh at a scene where crawford tortures a computer nerd with double entendres like " i'm very interested in _hard_ware " and other crap about playing with his joystick ? 
i wouldn't , but not because i'm a computer nerd . 
it's just not funny . 
crawford's only contribution to the information age are a few gif files floating around with her head on a nude traci lords' body . . . 
or was it jack lord's body ? 
i'll leave you with the final line of dialogue in the movie . 
the boat with all the russians has just blown up and baldwin and crawford are floating on a life raft . 
crawford says woodenly , " that was my client's boat you just blew up . 
i'm filing a lawsuit against you . 
you're in big trouble , " or something to that effect , and baldwin replies smugly , " what do i have to do to get out of it ? " 
they of course begin making out and the credits roll . 
i'm not going to talk about how stupid the line is or how , if they'd really wanted to go for a bad closing line they would have had baldwin say , " you think i could settle out of court ? " 
but i will tell you that , if anyone ever suggests you watch fair game with him or her , you quote the final line of the movie to that person : " what do i have to do to get out of it ? " 
serving america for over 1/50th of a century ! 

can you say " dated " ? 
you can if you've seen rosemary's baby which , like the exorcist , was a thrilling horror film in its time but seems boring and laughable in the decades that have passed since its original release . 
 " mystery science theater 3000 " has skewered the bad films of the past , but let me tell you , it could do a number on the " good " ones too . 
rosemary's baby stars mia farrow ( from the time she was actually good-looking ) as an innocent housewife and her not-so-innocent husband ( john cassavettes ) , an actor who takes an easy , albeit evil , road to success . 
it all seems so harmless in the beginning . 
mia and john move into an apartment where several past murders have been committed . 
 ( there's also a skull in the living room , but it's only for decoration . ) 
their elderly neighbors pop in for a housewarming . 
all's well for about the first hour of this slow-moving film , until mia eats some of the neighbors' chocolate mousse and passes out . 
when she comes to , she finds herself in a darkened room with a bunch of people yelling and dancing like savages and a big , evil man raping her -- a foreshadowing of her future life with woody allen . 
it seems like a dream and , when she finds herself pregnant , she almost forgets about it . 
and everyone's helping with the pregnancy . 
the neighbors have some wonderful vitamin potions for her to drink , a good-luck charm for her to wear around her neck , and the name of an obstetrician who's been in the business 66 . 6 
years . 
meanwhile , mia begins having chronic stomach pains and losing a lot of weight . 
before too long she looks just like the lead singer of the cranberries . 
that's when you know your health's failing . 
the only person in the movie who's the least bit suspicious of all this is an old friend ( maurice evans ) who calls mia up to give her the bad news -- and immediately falls into a coma . 
by about the two-hour mark i felt the same way . 
rosemary's baby is way too long , and leads up to a payoff that's about as boring and laughable as the rest of the movie . 
i guess someone put a spell on this movie . 

mighty joe young blunders about for nearly twenty minutes before we actually get to see a great big gorilla . 
his entrance , however , is a grand one : out from the trees he leaps , gargantuan and imposing , sporting hands big enough to crush a volkswagen bug , and a pair of feet much larger than any pro basketball player will ever have . 
joe bellows at the poachers before him , angry that they would like to kill him and sell him for millions of dollars . 
during this scene , i turned to my friend and said , " wow . 
that's some ape . " 
joe is quite a gorilla -- a big , digital gorilla . 
he runs around the fields , chasing cars and people . 
he picks things up and stares at them pensively . 
he breaks things on accident , because he's just too big to avoid clumsiness . 
joe , as a special effect , is an image that might hold your interest for five minutes . 
as a character , he doesn't quite register . 
and the story he's been put in is as limp as they come . 
the words " family entertainment " have never been a stamp of quality , but might joe young is just a silly special effects movie pretending to have a heart . 
the picture is a remake of the 1949 film . 
it's mostly just about the big gorilla , but , strictly as a formality , the movie also has a few human characters . 
the main one is jill young ( poor charlize theron , forced to waste her talent ) , a lover of gorillas . 
as a child , she witnessed a group of poachers murder her mother ; now , she lives in the jungle to protect the wildlife . 
specifically , she's out to protect joe , a giant gorilla who has been her friend since her childhood . 
soon , zoologist gregg o'hara ( bill paxton ) discovers joe ; he quickly realizes that poachers want to get joe and sell him to a big game hunter named strasser ( rade sherbedgia ) , who just happens to be the same guy who killed jill's mother . 
so , in an effort to save joe , jill and gregg take the big gorilla to a preserve , where it is instantly clear that he is not safe from poachers . 
in addition , the space is way too small for him ( after all , he is a really big gorilla ) . 
and , to add to the complications , strasser shows up under a benevolent pretext ( he tells jill that he has a preserve big enough for joe ) , and joe recognizes strasser as the guy who killed jill's mother . 
jill , of course , doesn't recognize strasser , even though he did kill her mother . 
this is just one of the many examples of stupidity in mighty joe young , a film that fulfills every stereotype that comes with a special effects film . 
the movie isn't really offensive -- it has some competent actors , a few nifty sets , and a lot of scenes with a big , digitized gorilla . 
but the story is really dumb , there aren't any characters , and the film isn't satisfying on any level beyond its visuals . 
the movie also has bad dialogue . 
if a critic says that a film has bad dialogue , it's only fair to quote some of it , but most of the words spoken in this picture are phrases like " joe isn't happy ! " 
and " joe isn't safe here ! " 
 " we need to get joe out of here ! " 
 " joe is way too big for that cage ! " 
i don't know if these phrases are word for word , but they're close . 
as i said , the characters here are only present as a formality : they do little more than state the obvious ( of * course * joe is too big for that cage ) . 
paxton and theron are talented performers who deserve to work on a script that provides characters for them . 
sadly , mighty joe young wastes them both . 
there are a few clever moments ( although none of them are surfacing in my memory at the moment ) , and , as i said , the digital effects held my attention for at least five minutes . 
it's certainly not a bad film for kids ; i doubt joe will give them nightmares . 
but adults in the audience aren't likely to find much of anything interesting about the big gorilla . 
a big gorilla is only interesting for a little while ; after that , something needs to be done with the big gorilla . 
nobody ever figures out what to do with the big gorilla . 

the american action film has been slowly drowning to death in a sea of asian wire-fu copycats . 
it's not a pretty death , and it's leaving the likes of schwartznager , stallone , and van damme wearing cement galoshes at the bottom of a kung fu sea . 
sometimes , the mix results in a mind-blowing spectacle unlike any other . 
quality action with amazing and exciting stunt work , as in 1999's the matrix , can be a real gem . 
but too often hollywood gets it wrong , even when they pay off chinese directors . 
flying ninjas and floating karate masters have been replaced by soaring bronx detectives and slow motion kicking scientists . 
mostly it's laughable . 
in hollywood's rush to emulate the success of the matrix , trademark asian stunt choreography has become more of a joke than an art form . 
but iron monkey , the latest asian import , shows us how to get it right . 
iron monkey ( actually a reissue of a 1993 film ) is the story of a 19th chinese vigilante ( rongguang yu ) , fighting with his own unique style of shaolin kung fu for the rights of the oppressed and the bellies of the hungry . 
but it is also a piece of the narrative of legendary chinese film hero wong fei-hong , most recently seen in one of the most overlooked , and possibly best films of 2000 , drunken master 2 ( released in the u . s . as the legend of drunken master ) . 
unlike drunken master 2 , which stars jackie chan as an adult fei-hong , iron monkey finds a much younger fei-hong ( sze-man tsang ) and his father wong kei-ying ( yen chi dan ) thrust into the middle of iron monkey's fight against oppression . 
iron monkey succeeds as no kung fu film since drunken master 2 . at times , fighting styles , especially that of monkey himself , do devolve into the ridiculous twinkle-toed floating of films like crouching tiger , hidden dragon , director yuen wo ping eventually remembers to bring his action scenes back to earth . 
iron monkey is at its heart a hardcore , kung fu action film rather than any kind of drama a la crouching tiger . 
however , there are brief moments of profoundness shared between characters , such as those that pass between our outlaw hero and his good-hearted but misguided enemy , chief fox . 
in those moments , and in others , iron monkey manages to transcend its mindless kung fu nature to touch the hearts and minds of its audience . 
while in no way the equal of a masterpiece like drunken master 2 , iron monkey dances quite nicely to the invading kung fu tune . 
aka siunin wong fei-hung tsi titmalau . 

talk about beating a dead horse ! 
when home alone was released in 1990 , it was a breath of fresh air , and the final box office tally indicated how much audiences appreciated a genuinely-funny family film . 
the unexpectedly high gross guaranteed a sequel , so , two years later , we were subjected to home alone 2 , which might as well have been called clone alone for all of the originality it exhibited . 
for john hughes , two home alone movies weren't enough ? he began recycling the same kinds of villains and situations in almost every movie he was involved with , including a pathetic box office bomb called baby's day out , last year's live-action 101 dalmatians , and this year's flubber . 
now , inexplicably , hughes has exhumed not only these worn-out plot elements , but the " home alone " name as well . 
the result ? 1997's worst sequel ( edging out speed 2 and batman and robin ) , home alone 3 . 
by changing the characters , hughes ( who wrote and co-produced the film ) , along with his co-conspirator , director raja gosnell , has attempted to inject new life into a series that is way past the point of cardiac arrest . 
the new kid , alex pruitt , is played by alex d . linz ( one fine day ) , and the only thing he has going for him is terminal cuteness . 
he's not half as interesting as macaulay culkin once was . 
the villains , pale copies of joe pesci and daniel stern , are even less engaging than the pair of idiots in flubber . 
in home alone 3 , there are four of them ( olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , and rya kihlstedt ) , but all that means is an opportunity for twice as many pratfalls . 
this time , the kid isn't left home alone because his parents have gone on a trip . 
instead , he has developed a bad case of chicken pox , so he can't go to school . 
his dad ( kevin kilner ) is away on business and his mom ( haviland morris ) has to run errands , so , for the most part , he's all by himself during the day . 
through a series of coincidences too irritating to relate , a top secret u . s . air force integrated circuit comes into his possession . 
it's wanted by a gang of four international crooks who intend to break into alex's home to retrieve it . 
the eight- year old , who is wise beyond his years , booby traps the house with all sorts of rube goldberg-type devices designed to humiliate and incapacitate the villains . 
the movie's climax takes place during a raging snowstorm ? only none of the falling flakes looks remotely believable . 
previously , the most counterfeit-looking snow effects i can remember were in star trek iii . 
these are far worse . 
in fact , the production values are so shoddy that there are some scenes in the midst of this near-blizzard when a shining sun can be seen . 
if it's a wonderful life could generate real- looking snow back in the 1940s , why can't home alone 3 , which has a significantly larger budget and '90s technology at its disposal ? 
there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriateness of live-action cartoon violence for young children . 
home alone 3 will add fuel to the fire . 
it's one thing to see wyle e . coyote flattened by a 10 ton acme weight , but quite another to watch a running lawn mower fall on lenny von dohlen . 
adults and even older children will recognize that this is obviously fake and intended to be humorous , but what about five and six-year olds ? 
the level of violence in home alone 3 is extreme ? many of alex's schemes are nasty enough to kill . 
but , because this is a " family film , " no one dies , despite being electrocuted , falling thirty feet , and getting smacked on the head by a barbell . 
not only is home alone 3 unnecessary , but it's offensive . 
it's an exercise in tediousness , and there isn't a genuine laugh to be found from the beginning to the end ( unless , by some strange quirk of fate , you have missed every 1990s movie associated with john hughes , and thus haven't seen this stuff before ) . 
i can't imagine anyone with a reasonable attention span being more than momentarily distracted by this pointless adventure . 
maybe that's why the only ones laughing at the screening i attended were still in their thumb-sucking years . 

susan granger's review of " songcatcher " in the midst of this summer's fare of dinos revisited and romantic fiascoes , there are a few thoughtful movies - and this appalachian period drama is one . 
oscar nominee janet mcteer ( " tumbleweeds " ) stars as dr . lily penleric , an accomplished musicologist who , back in that pre-feminist era , was refused a full professorship at her university . 
determined to prove her worth , she ventures deep into the rugged mountains of north carolina , where her younger sister elna ( jane adams ) runs a school . 
there in bear creek , she discovers a treasure-trove of traditional scots-irish and english folk ballads , given a unique interpretation by the insular locals . 
excited , she sends for recording equipment and persuades vinie butler ( pat carroll ) and other self-sustaining mountain folk to share their musical heritage on her edison phonograph cylinders . 
their music , as she puts it , is " as much a part of life here as the air you breathe . " 
that's the main thrust of writer-director maggie greenwald's occasionally uneven culture-clash story , which is loosely based on olive dame campbell's foray through the blue ridge mountains in 1908 , but there's also some melodramatic romantic spice . 
ornery , bearded , banjo-picking aidan quinn falls for the statuesque , passionate " songcatcher , " while elna secretly engages in a lesbian relationship with a colleague ( e . 
katherine kerr ) . 
i'm ready to buy the soulful soundtrack with vocalists like emmylou harris , iris dement , taj mahal and young opera star emmy rossum who plays a pivotal role as mcteer's wide-eyed prot ? g ? . 
rated pg-13 , there's an intense scene of primitive childbirth . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " songcatcher " is an intelligent , extraordinary 8 , transported by the transcendent power of song . 

david cronenberg presents us with another strange tale crawling out of his impressively twisted head . 
it is one of many science fiction films , released during the last year of this millenium , that tackles issues that will play an important role in our future . 
the story unfolds in a near future , where the line between reality and virtual reality blurs . 
the world of the future is an unfriendly place , where the scared inhabitants are " hiding " in virtual reality fantasy games to escape the uncertainty of the real world . 
allegra geller ( jennifer jason leigh ) , the leading game designer in the world , is testing her new virtual reality game , existenz with a focus group . 
as they begin , she is attacked by a fanatic assassin employing a bizarre organic gun . 
she flees with a young marketing trainee , ted pikul ( jude law ) , who is suddenly assigned as her bodyguard . 
unfortunately , her pod , an organic gaming device that contains the only copy of the existenz game program , is damaged . 
to inspect it , she talks ted into accepting a gameport in his own body so he can play the game with her . 
the events leading up to this , and the resulting game lead the pair on a strange adventure in a world where individuality doesn't exist , as the " players " are forced to perform as characters in an unknown plot . 
here the reality and their actions are impossible to determine from either their own or the game's perspective . 
i don't intend to reveal more of the film's premise , which is structured as a computer game , with " tasks " that the characters must complete to win the game . 
released after " the matrix " and " dark city " , " existenz " has some similarities and parallels that connect it to these films . 
however , " existenz " is moving in a different direction , with a premise of its own . 
a combination of dazzling special effects , brilliantly coordinated action sequences and an intelligent and sophisticated plot , made " the matrix " a rare and entertaining science fiction experience , with some dark and frightening ideas hidden under its sparkling facade . 
 " existenz " has a completely different atmosphere , resembling " dark city " , which is darker , more serious and less entertaining . 
 " existenz " has the opportunities and potential , but the enormous possibilities are never quite explored . 
after the engaging beginning , it starts to falter . 
while i was watching the film , many left the theatre during the first hour . 
and indeed , " existenz " seemed as a complete failure : the actors seemed unreal , the plot and dialogue silly , unfinished relationships and unexplained events followed one after another . 
but the last fifteen minutes lifted the film on a complete different level , explaining all past events , the silly dialogue and the unreal performances within a few scenes . 
and jet the film fails on several issues . 
probably the best written character in the story is a game designer , who would rather spend the rest of her life in a virtual world , than face real life . 
this is a great possibility to create a magnificent character , and jennifer jason leigh stretches cronenberg's script to the limits , but fails because the advantages of virtual reality in comparison to the real world are never shown . 
existenz is not a world of which you might dream about in your fantasies . 
it is not a world worth sacrificing your life for . 
it's a cold , dark place where the " players " are forced to interrelate with unreal characters , eat mutated creatures and even murder against their own will . 
it doesn't look like a place worth even thinking about . 
david cronenberg has been the creator of " the fly " , " videodrome " and " the dead zone " , so it's not so hard to guess that " existenz " is a violent and gory film . 
besides the regular murders of innocent people , the audiences can enjoy an autopsy of a two-headed mutated amfibium . 
scenes like that have become a trademark for cronenberg and it seems that he can't make a film without flowing blood and foul creatures . 
the way i see it , this is the film's crucial failure . 
it is impossible for cronenbergto create a beautiful world where time , space and problems of our everyday life do not exist ; a place of blooming blossoms , green forests and clear waters ; a place really worth sacrificing your life for . 
because of its lack of three dimensionality , the film looses most of its possibilities , but stays afloat because of some interesting scenes , amusing performances ( especially by willem dafoe ) and one interesting and important thought , depicted in many different ways throughout the movie . 
during the film , the audience is as confused as the characters : detached from their everyday existence and no longer able to see the difference between the real world and the alternative reality that they have created . 
 " the matrix " , despite of its many dark and disturbing thoughts , ends with a light at the end of the tunnel . 
 " existenz " does not . 
it is a one time experience , ending in blood , gore and madness - a rather frightening forecast for tomorrow . 

i'll be the first to admit it . 
when you mention the book great expectations , i immediately begin experiencing flashbacks to junior high english class , where i was confronted with a torturously boring book filled with people with such nonsensical names as pip and magwitch . 
yes , it's a classic of literature , but it was a rather dry one , shoved down my young throat like a spoonful of bitter medicine . 
certainly , the experience wasn't truly that bad , but , to quote ethan hawke in the latest movie adaptation of said book , " i'm not going to tell the story the way it happened . . . i'll 
gonna tell it the way i remember it . " 
anyway , to return from nostalgia lane , and get back to the present , hollywood , in it's trendy attempt to modernize the classics , now presents an updated film version of great expectations . 
instead of pip , this time the central character is named finn ( played as a boy by jeremy kissner , and by ethan hawke as an adult ) . 
finn is an orphan being raised by his unfaithful sister maggie , or should that be mrs . joe , ( kim dickens ) , and her boorish fisherman husband , joe ( chris cooper ) . 
the setting is the florida coast during the mid-70s . 
finn is a blooming artist , and spends his time running around the beach drawing fish ( one of his two favorite subjects ) . 
during one of these escapades , he literally stumbles upon an escaped criminal ( robert deniro ) . 
borrowing a page from the superhuman max cady , deniro's criminal has a seemingly limitless lung capacity , and favors hiding on the ocean floor . 
ok . . . maybe 
that's an exaggeration , but he certainly beats any of houdini's records in the opening scenes of the film . 
and that's nothing next to the fuel efficiency of finn's motorboat , but i digress . 
anyway , finn does the convict a good deed , just to show that he's a really swell guy . 
and then the plot moves on . 
enter miss havisham . . . or 
ms . dinsmoor here ( anne bancroft ) . 
abandoned at the altar some 26 years ago , ms . dinsmoor is the epitome of the crazy rich old maid . 
with bizarre clothing , eccentric mannerisms and a few pounds of makeup , anne bancroft seriously overacts in this role . 
although she ends up nowhere near a believable character , she does add some humor to the film . 
joe is hired to help with the gardening at her unkempt manner , but the insane ms . dinsmoor soon hires finn to be a plaything for her niece , estella ( raquel beaudene as a young girl , gwyneth paltrow as an adult ) . 
for no apparent reason , other than to provide the main plot of the film , finn is instantly stricken for the estella . 
perhaps it's her snooty attitude or her utter disdain for his person , or maybe finn has simply never met a girl before . 
in any case , neither as children nor adults , chemistry simply doesn't exist between the two , and yet finn spends the remainder of the film pining for her . 
even when , as an adult , finn arrives in new york at the behest of a mysterious benefactor , reacquaints himself with estella , and draws her portrait in the nude , there's nothing . 
in fact , there is more sexual tension between helen hunt and greg kinnear's gay artist during a similar scene in as good as it gets . 
at this point , the audience has grown as cold and detached as estella's character , and couldn't care less about the two characters . 
the bulk of the blame here falls upon gwyneth paltrow . 
she fails to imbue estella , a remote character in the book , with even the vaguest traces of humanity . 
there's obviously something wrong when , watching the film , you're more interested with how big her nose looks in silhouette than you are about her character . 
without a strong estella , finn's obsession seems baseless . 
you wish he would just stop whining , let estella marry his rival , walter plane ( an oddly subdued hank azaria ) , and just get on with his life . 
in fact , the two relationships that work in the film are purely tangential to the main plot . 
finn's relationship with his brother-in-law , joe , is interesting , if a bit stereotypical . 
what's more fascinating are his interactions with deniro . 
although it's only a bit part , it goes to show how much vitality a strong actor can create . 
it is apparent that director alfonso cuarsn put a lot of work in creating the imagery of the film . 
some of the shots work , but others are too obviously staged ( for example , both of the water fountain scenes ) to have any impact . 
finn's art ( actually the creations of italian painter , francesco clemente ) is used throughout the film , but it mostly fails to have the intended effect . 
we never see why finn would generate this style of art , which is simultaneously crude and insightful . 
as a result , it ends up as distant as the rest of the film . 
modernizing the classics is currently in vogue ( just see william shakespeare's romeo+juliet ) . 
simply update the action to a modern setting , and apply plenty of modern rock . 
but such adornments do little to perk up great expectations . 
as much as i dreaded the novel when i first read it , you'd probably be better off suffering though a reading than watching this romanceless film . 

 " flubber " is the second best example of how to take all the life out of a film remake an adaptation , and hysterically enough both were distributed by disney . 
it's the kind of film that may be slightly entertaining to tiny kids , but anyone else will feel left out as it's boring , slow , and incredibly lifeless . 
what could be a film with cinematic magic is instead dead in the water , and it's a shame because it could have been a great film . 
hypothetically , i mean . 
 " flubber , " as you probably know , is a remake of the disney classic i never saw , " the absent minded professor , " where a , well , absent minded professor played by fred mcmurray created an erratic substance known as " flubber , " you know , flying rubber ? 
the new one keeps the basic plot , but appears to have added a lot else , like more absent-mindedness on the part of the proffessor , some more villains , and several " show-stopping " moments , like a big rumba with the flubber , and some more elaborate setups , none which really make it any better , but instead make it worse . 
the basic plot revolves around a college professor , philip brainerd ( robin williams ) , who creates lots and lots of inventions , but is sadly absent minded . 
in fact , he's forgotten his wedding to the college's president , sara jean reynolds ( indie actress marcia gay harden ) , two times before he forgets it again at the beginning . 
doesn't this warrant some kind of mental treatment ? 
anyway , on his wedding day ( the third one ) , he invents the flubber , which not only bounces off of everything like a super ball on speed , but can also change shape like the aliens in water form in " the abyss . " 
philip believes that this invention , once fully realized , will save his college , which is in threat of being shut down by a millionaire tycoon/villain , chester hoenicker ( raymond j . barry ) , which is ironically enough the same college his brat son ( will wheaton - thought he was dead ) goes to . 
through a plot twist , hoenicker's goons , named smith and wesson ( ha ha - what a great sense of humor this film has ) who are played by clancy brown and ted levine ( both who needed the pay check ) , discover it the hard way , and try to steal for hoenicker , who wants it just 'cause he's evil enough . 
a sub-plot involves philip's attempts to win back sara , who's angry at him ( and with good reason ) , but who is being seduced by who is basically philip's belloq , wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald , playing the hysterically suave-yet-unsuave asswhole once again ) . 
and in another subplot , philip's day-timer robot , weebo ( voiced by the one-and-only jodi benson ) , falls in love with him . 
yuckity-yuck . 
what's most pathetic about this film is how dull it is . 
you don't need to be a cynical college student to be able to see right through this film , which is another in a long line of cheap attempts at making a quick buck by disney , who have essentially become the puff daddy of the film industry , half-assedly re-mixing classics ( or non-classics ) for distribution to the general public , who sadly eats it all up . 
earlier in '97 , they released " jungle 2 jungle , " an adaptation of a really awful french film , " un indien dans la ville , " which , yeah , improved over the original , but not by much . 
disney's in about as bad shape as warner brothers right now , only creatively . 
in the rush to ship out a film for distribution , disney has forgotten to give this film a little thing called " magic . " 
such scenes as dancing flubber , a flying car , a basketball team that pretty much sucks flying all around thanks to some carefully placed flubber , and an elaborate ending all fail to amaze , delight , or even cause people to laugh . 
i sat there the entire film stone faced , chuckling perhaps twice , and shaking my head at all the bad jokes . 
who could really laugh at a scene where philip enters the wrong classroom and starts teaching chemistry ? 
didn't think so . 
it doesn't help that our protagonist is essentially unfunny or even really respectable . 
philip is not a lovable absent minded professory , just a really dumb man being played by robin williams . 
williams is a brilliant comic actor . . . okay , a brilliant actor in general , but here he's given very little to do but occasionally get hyper over something , and other times act sad . 
those times , he's not bad . 
but what are we supposed to think of a man who's forgotten his wedding thrice ? 
maybe it was funny and/or respectable in the 60s . . . 
i like disney , and i usually enjoy their films , not only animated but live action , and their recent films ( save for " hercules , " which was good , but not great ) have been worse than lackluster , they've been pathetic . 
 " jungle 2 jungle " is probably the worst film i saw last year . 
 " flubber " 's probably second . 
what do they need to do ? 
perhaps create something new . 
get writers who can write something that's universally entertaining . 
films like " the parent trap " and " mary poppins " are films that are live action ( or in the latter case a mix of both ) , but even i can still watch them because they're not only written to be magical to children , but to be fun to adults . 
what's more torturous that taking a child to a film that insults you and annoys you at every turn ? 
and my god , couldn't they have done something else with edie mcclurg ? 

it's a sad state of affairs when the back box blurb is more exciting than the movie contained within it . 
such is the case for the 1990 paul mayersberg film _the last samurai_ . 
though the blurb alludes to " a jungle filled with political intrigue , uneasy alliances , and murderous enemies at every turn , " the story of the movie is actually quite simple ( and prosaic ) : a middle-aged japanese businessman named endo ( played by john fujioka ) and his assistant , both of whom have samurai aspirations , travel to africa in search of his ancestor , who went to bring buddhism to africa . 
he hires the services of down-at-the-heels vietnam veteran pilot johnny congo ( the redoubtable lance henriksen ) and his girlfriend ( arabella holzbog ) , and travels to the camp of an arms-merchant-cum-safari-host- cum-islamic-missionary ( john saxon ) and his wife ( lisa eilbacher ) . 
they are all kidnapped by an african revolutionary guerilla with witch-doctor aspirations to conceal a pre-arranged arms deal , which subsequently falls through . 
congo escapes , finds endo's ancestor's sword , and comes back , guns blazing , to free the rest of them , and endo kills the revolutionary with the sword . 
the end . 
_the last samurai_ is one of those movies that is neither bad enough nor good enough to be enjoyable . 
it is merely _there_ . 
the murky plot is filled with subtexts that are never elaborated , subplots that are never explained , and many scenes that make very little sense at all . 
the film is shot through with all the tired old " inscrutable japanese samurai " and zen stereotypes that are to be expected from an american movie . 
it is quite slow-paced , with only a bit of action near the end , and the final duel between endo and the terrorist is quite anticlimactic . 
most of the acting is fair , with the possible exception of congo's girlfriend . 
lance henriksen is his usual scene-chewing self , and is one of few possible reasons anyone might conceivably have for seeing this movie . 
the only other bright spot is the sweeping african scenery . 
i paid $3 for this film , from the discount rack at best buy , and halfway suspect i overpaid for it . 
if you are in the mood for samurai , read a clavell novel or watch a kurusawa movie . 
skip _the last samurai_ unless you are a die-hard henriksen fan . 

 " last night " could have an " aka " tagged on the end of it that says , " it's the end of the world , and we feel fine " . 
 " last night " is about just that . 
the last night of planet earth's existence . 
the world is going to end at precisely midnight , january 1st , 2000 . 
how scientists were so accurately able to predict when this catastrophic event would occur is never explained . 
nor is the event itself . 
throughout the entire movie , no explanation is given as to why this is happening . 
in doing this , mckellar ( who also wrote and directed the film ) seems to be trying to transcend the genre . 
he's attempted to make a film about people , and how each of them deals with their last night of life . 
the film contains no science fiction elements , which allows the viewer to concentrate on the feelings and actions of the characters . 
mckellar is largely successful in his attempt to rise above his material . 
the film is set in toronto , and follows several people in their various escapades on the last night of existence . 
there's mckellar , who plays a man who just wants to be alone when the moment occurs , but keeps getting interrupted by a woman ( sandra oh ) in search of her husband . 
her husband , played by david cronenberg , is spending the day working at the gas company , informing people that they will attempt to keep providing gas right up until the end . 
finally , there's mckellar's friend , played by callum keith rennie , a man who has spent his final months trying out every sexual perversion you can think of . 
mckellar has crafted a gang of the some of the most interesting characters i've seen in a film in months . 
these people all felt real to me , especially the character played by sandra oh . 
we can see her desperation , her utter need to be with her husband in the final hours . 
rennie is good , too , as the man who wants to literally try everything before he dies . 
he exudes such charm and likeablity , it's not surprising that we're rooting for him to get what he wants . 
but for me , the biggest surprise in the movie is mckellar . 
i knew that he was a talented director , but i had no idea he could act as well . 
his insistence to be alone , much to the dismay of his parents , is something that most people would find difficult to understand , but as played by mckellar , we can understand his reasons . 
he doesn't buy into the whole notion that just because everyone's going to die , he should immediately find some companionship . 
he realizes the relationship would be forced , and they would only be together for the sake of being together . 
mckellar gives a brilliant performance , and i hope he alternates between directing and acting . 
my only quibble with the film is that we never find out why the world is ending . 
i really wanted to know , and my need to know was hanging over the film at all times . 
i appreciate the fact that mckellar didn't want the material to rule the film , and that he wanted the movie to be more of a study in human behavious . 
however , in not telling the audience what the cause of earth's destruction is , he's left a big question that is in their minds throughout the film . 
another problem is we never see anybody panicking . 
i would imagine if the world was ending , and there was nothing to be done about it , a large segment of the population would be going out of their minds . 
instead , we are treated to shots of a giant crowd partying like it's new year's eve . 
i just didn't buy the fact that everyone had completely accepted their fate . 
no one had the urge to " rage against the dying of the light " . 
despite these small problems , " last night " is one of the best movies of the year . 
as opposed to the moronic " armageddon " , " last night " treats the subject at hand with maturity and believabilty . 
and bruce willis never shows up to save the day . 

capsule : not as bad a sequel as crow 2 or batman & robin , but still horribly putrid , cheesy and ill-conceived . 
this one belongs in saturday morning cartoons . . . 
extended review : you know , about halfway through this movie , i realized that if you hacked out everything except the fight scenes , you'd have a damn fine 35 minutes or so of flashy , hong kong style martial arts . 
beautifully choreographed by robin shou , who also plays liu kang , the fight scenes are both mind-blowing and graceful , acrobatic enough to make olympic gymnasts weep . 
this is what made the original so fun , but unfortunately for the sequel , we are without the frenetic directorial style of paul anderson . 
instead , they got john r . leonetti , the cinematographer for the original mortal kombat . 
not a good choice . 
while the fight scenes are brutal and eye-popping , the rest of the movie looks like standard made for tv fare . 
the acting is sub-par , which i could endure if it were not for a . ) the director's style , b . ) the special effects , & c . ) the treatment of the story and characters . 
a . ) mr . leonetti should go back to lighting , in my opinion . 
i could say dozens of bad things about him : he way overuses slow-motion , he has no eye for action , he can't get even mediocre performances out of actors , and so on . 
but by far his worst move was the way he treated jumping . 
apparantly , everybody can now fly . 
hell , i'm all for the occaisional gravity defying flip kick and whatnot , but not when it happens every few minutes , and is done so poorly . 
better jumping and acrobatics has been seen in xena : warrior princess . 
in short , they should have gotten paul anderson back . 
or at least let robin shou direct . . . 
b . ) unlike the first one , whose sfx were vibrant and somewhat realistic , mk : a's special effects are bland , fake looking , and overall just plain bad . 
i counted at least half a dozen times that blue-screening was painfully obvious . 
had this movie been made in the 80's , it would have been ground-breaking . 
but in today's industry , it doesn't even look finished . 
c . ) now for the _really_ bad parts . 
i admit , i'm an avid fan of the mortal kombat series . 
the games are amusing diversions , an easy way to work off stress and anger . 
the first movie was a mindlessly fun thrillride . 
this could have been a really cool movie . 
it isn't . 
the writers apparantly deemed it necessary to lower the target audience from teens to preschoolers . 
some of the plot elements are just plain stupid . 
how stupid ? 
take , for instance , how our heroes move around . 
they use giants spheres the roll around underground , supposedly at thousands of miles per hour . . . oh 
boy . . . 
even worse is the treatment of secondary characters . 
blink and you'll miss 'em . 
most characters had more depth in the video games . 
if you thought batman & robin was bad about this , you ain't seen nothin' yet . 
a good 75% of the characters are introduced , kick somebody around a bit , then either die or are forgotten about . 
there's no explanation at all for this . 
and for the final blasphemy , the fight that all the fans were waiting rabidly for , the fight hyped to be the most intricate of the movie , lasted about 3 minutes and then just sort of . . . ended . 
it almost made me weep . 
to sum it all up , rent it on video , and fast-forward through everything except the fight scenes . 

all through its production and into the early days of its initial , aborted pre-release publicity , hard rain bore the appropriate moniker of the flood . 
ultimately , however , paramount pictures , nervous that this movie would be confused with 1996's other , underperforming disaster films ( dante's peak , volcano ) , changed the title and shifted the release date by nearly a year . 
but , to paraphrase the bard , swill , by any other name , would smell as rank . 
no number of name changes can help this picture . 
it's not just about a disaster , it is a disaster . 
hard rain is the case of a movie that gets progressively worse with every passing minute . 
the best shot occurs during the opening credits , as the camera pans over the streets and byways of huntingburg , indiana as the water level slowly rises . 
the community , protected by an overworked dam , is being evacuated as the rain continues to pour relentlessly from the cloud-choked skies . 
from that moment on , it's all downhill . 
whatever initial entertainment value the film possesses has long since drained away by the halfway point . 
it takes forever to get to the end credits -- this is one of the longest-seeming 95-minute motion pictures i have recently endured . 
basically , hard rain is one extended , dull chase sequence punctuated by occasional shoot-outs . 
there's a lot of water , broken glass , gunfire , and explosions . 
it's all very routine and uninteresting because there aren't any real characters and the plot only occasionally makes sense . 
the film's conclusion is so preposterous that it's almost worth watching for the sheer masochistic enjoyment of seeing the monumentally idiotic way that the film makers decide to resolve the myriad subplots that are floating around . 
action films are supposed to become progressively more invigorating as they rush towards a conclusion . 
graham yost , the writer of both speed and hard rain , surely understands that principle . 
unfortunately , neither he , nor cinematographer-turned-director mikael salomon ( a far off place ) , applies it . 
the action in hard rain grows tedious through repetition . 
we see the same kinds of things -- speedboat chases , flood damage , shoot-outs , etc . -- over and over again . 
the movie constantly recycles about twenty minutes worth of material to pad the running time out to an acceptable movie length . 
the storyline gives us a number of paper-thin characters in contrived circumstances . 
there's tom ( christian slater ) , the one- dimensional action hero who works as a security guard driving an armored car full of cash . 
he and his partner , charlie ( edward asner , tv's " lou grant " ) , get stuck on a street that's rapidly turning into a river . 
a group of men , led by jimmy ( morgan freeman ) , arrive on the scene not as rescuers but as robbers . 
after charlie is killed in a shoot-out , tom hides the money , then runs . 
as he swims and boats his way through huntingburg's roads , he encounters some of the locals : karen ( minnie driver ) , a would-be love interest ; a bickering old couple ( richard dysart and betty white ) , who are on hand to provide comic relief ; and the easily-corrupted sheriff ( randy quaid ) , whose seeming helpfulness hides sinister ulterior motives . 
there isn't any real acting in this film . 
christian slater utters a few lame one-liners and does a lot of mugging for the camera . 
tom is easily one of the most lifeless characters the actor has brought to the screen . 
randy quaid sneers a lot , and is totally unconvincing . 
morgan freeman and minnie driver both attempt to give legitimate performances , but they are defeated by the script . 
freeman , one of the best cinematic thespians working today , looks suitably embarrassed to be here , but i suppose everyone needs a good paycheck from time-to-time . 
following in the wake of twister , this is yet another natural disaster movie that doesn't trust nature's fury as the chief engine of conflict . 
as a result , we are saddled with an idiotic good guys/bad guys story that effectively ruins any potential that the flood tale could have had . 
titanic proved that there can be a wealth of drama in a movie where everything goes under water . 
hard rain successfully demonstrates that the opposite is equally possible . 
thus far this year , hollywood has already subjected us to its unique brand of moronic mayhem by fire ( firestorm ) and water ( hard rain ) . 
fortunately , there are only two elements left . 

a lot of times a three-star film will be my favorite . 
they're usually the kind of movie i can watch most often too . 
they're usually not too deep , allowing for semi-brainless relaxation , and at the same time , not too dumb . 
men in black is a four-star three-star film . 
 ( hope you could follow that one ) 
men in black doesn't wait to get to the fun . 
just minutes into the film we are introduced to agent kay ( tommy lee jones ) , introduced to an alien , and introduced to the the awesome memory-diminishing tool that all mib agents use . 
after all , you can't have alien witnesses running around with that kind of knowledge can you ? 
men in black is , of course , the organization which " moniters all extra-terrestrial activity on earth " . 
nypd officer james edwards ( will smith ) , is on a routine foot chase when suddenly the no-good punk he's chasing starts leaping up buildings and blinking more than one pair of eyes . 
the alien delivers the simple message that the world is going to end , and with that , dives off of a roof . 
naturally nobody believes his story . 
 . 
 . 
nobody that is , except for the top secret organization that not even the government is aware of . 
edwards then meets agent kay , the man who never seems to crack a smile , and is introduced to the mib . 
edwards winds up joining the team and is stripped of anything that can point back to him ( birth certificate , drivers license , and even the literal removal of his fingerprints ) . 
james edwards no longer exists . 
meet agent jay . 
agent kay takes the rookie jay under his wing as they go about " regular " duties . 
eventually a far more treacherous event comes into play . 
a " bug " has landed on earth and is going to wipe out mankind if these two don't ( or can't ) stop it . 
the plot isn't exactly clear , but we know it has to do with a galaxy as big as a jewel or marble being sought after on earth , and that is crucial that the mib find it before the " bug " does . 
barry sonnenfeld , who also did the addams family films , directs this nicely . 
it's fun , it's funny , it's action-packed . 
a nice summer blockbuster as it rightfully turned out to be . 
this is one of those movies that is just " fun " and can't really be summed up any nicer or clearer . 
will smith and tommy lee jones both do great jobs and both are a blast to watch . 
definitely one of the best films of the the summer of '97 , men in black comes highly recommeded from me ! 

the following review encompasses two versions of dune : 
dune : the theatrical version ( 1984 ) runtime : 137 minutes capsule review : cut down to just over two hours by nervous studio executives , the theatrical version of dune is a spectacular mess and may be incomprehensible to those unfamiliar with the book . 
the film's visual splendour , mystical beauty and impressive action scenes only partly compensate for gaping holes in the narrative . 
dune : the extended version ( 1988 ) runtime : 189 minutes capsule review : a bit of a throw-together assembled by mca tv special projects for cable television . 
it was disowned by director david lynch but it's considerably closer to his original vision by virtue of its improved characterisation and clearer storyline . 
quality dubs of this version from the out-of-print japanese laserdisc release are available from various dealers on the world wide web . 
 * * * the review * * * 
released in 1984 and made on a then mammoth budget of $40 million , the film of frank herbert's cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci-fi fans . 
director david lynch ( blue velvet , eraserhead , twin peaks ) was working on his biggest production to date , a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying conditions on location in mexico . 
the screenplay was lynch's own , chosen after the script submitted by original author herbert was rejected . 
dune is set in a universe ruled by powerful families overseen by a successive line of emperors . 
the key to cosmic power is the planet arrakis ( dune ) , a windswept desert planet that's home to giant sandworms and the precious spice melange . 
the spice is the most valuable commodity in the universe . 
it extends the life and expands the consciousness of those who consume it . 
most importantly , it allows the navigators of the spacing guild ( once human but now hideously mutated ) to " fold space " and navigate their spacecraft across mammoth distances instantaneously , enabling interstellar commerce and trade to flourish . 
lynch's film by necessity excises parts of the book while retaining the story's two main strands . 
one is the long-standing rivalry between two families , houses atreides and house harkonnen , and their battle for lucrative mining rights on arrakis . 
the second strand is the emergence of young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long-awaited by the natives of arrakis , the fremen . 
the deeply religious fremen want control over their homeworld , and young paul may be the fulfilment of their prophecy that a man would come from the outer worlds and lead them to freedom . 
unfortunately , this epic story unfolds in a confusing and haphazard manner in the theatrical cut of the film , which runs 30 to 60 minutes shorter than what lynch originally intended . 
the thinking among universal's oh-so-wise money men was that films over two hours in duration were not popular with audiences at the time and would not do well at the box office . 
with lynch's initial cut running at closer to three or more hours , the studio demanded that further cuts be made . 
what a great idea ! 
why not trim down an already complex film so as to make it almost incomprehensible ? 
the most glaring consequence of this one-eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative , leaving us with badly underdeveloped characters . 
thus their personalities are vague , their motivations unclear and , in the case of paul's father duke leto , their demise rather meaningless . 
the end result is a distinct chill : we can't warm to most of the cast and we don't care much for them . 
and it hardly helps that the voice-over narration is sparse and that the dune-esque language and terminology sounds like so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar with the book . 
dune is also a very serous film . 
the constant " self-talk " by various characters makes it so serious and self-absorbed at times that you may find it hard not to wince with embarrassment . 
the overall impression is a world full of people so intense that no one is allowed a joke lest the universe come crashing down around them . 
humour - or at least a gentle kind of humour as distinct from the harkonnen's mad , sadistic kind - is hard to find . 
you may balk at the comparison , but as a writer lynch could well have done with some lessons from george lucus' star wars trilogy . 
the theatrical version is still some way from being a complete disaster , however . 
it still possesses enough of lynch's stylistic quirks and enough visual invention to sustain the interest of viewers with a taste for imaginative sci-fi . 
special effects whiz carlo rambaldi's giant sandworms are an awesome sight . 
both the production design ( anthony masters ) and costume design ( bob ringwood ) are striking and original . 
and the magnificent score by toto and brian eno is one of the most underrated soundtracks of the last twenty years . 
with these elements in place and the benefit of freddie francis' lush cinematography , the film is at least a feast for the senses . 
see it in the widescreen format if you can . 
and despite all the cuts , several cast members still make a strong impression , most notably kenneth mcmillan as the supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen . 
sian phillips also registers strongly as the reverend mother gaius helen mohiam , leader of the bene gesserit religious order who's secret aim is to manipulate paul's destiny for its own shadowy ends . 
as paul atreides , the young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily , but as his character grows in strength so does his performance and he emerges as a credible leader of the fremen crusade . 
the conclusion ? 
any assessment of this film must take into account that frank herbert's original novel is a complex piece of work and presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker . 
david lynch took a brave stab at it and , partly due to forces beyond his control , ended up with an officially released version that fails in several key respects . 
dune certainly confused and frustrated a lot of people on its release . 
many chose to stay away altogether , as the film's disastrous box office showing attests . 
the extended version , however , is a rather different beast . 
in 1984 lynch stated his intention to release his own special edition " director's cut " of the film on home video , a clear indication of his dissatisfaction with the version that ended up in the theatres . 
but , alas , he failed to do so , choosing to move on to other projects . 
in a way , then , it is partly lynch's own fault that what appeared instead was an unauthorised extended version , put together in 1988 by mca tv special projects for airing on cable networks in the usa . 
stung into action , lynch successfully petitioned the director's guild to take his name off the credits and replace it with " allen smithee " , the standard pseudonym for directors who wish to disown their own work . 
he also had the screenwriting credit changed to the anonymous " judas booth " . 
certainly , looking at the results of mca's handiwork there's at least half a dozen instances that , for sheer technical sloppiness , are good enough reasons for the director to object . 
but these gripes must be considered in light of the improvements that the extended cut of dune offers in several crucial areas . 
most of the changes involve the restoration or extension of cut scenes and the addition of extra narration , both of which fill many holes in the original version's storyline . 
paul's relationship with his father and associates is more intimate , with moments of humour and warmth lacking previously . 
the political skulduggery involving the emperor , the spacing guild , the bene gesserits and the two warring houses is far better explained . 
paul's initiation into the fremen way of life on arrakis is also fleshed out considerably . 
and as further background , a new prologue has been added featuring narration and painted stills to give us a brief history of the dune universe . 
as a piece of storytelling , then , mca tv's version of dune is clearly superior . 
as a piece of editing , however , it is at times surprisingly inept . 
the use of painted stills in the new prologue works well enough , but their occasional appearance once the action begins is inappropriate . 
there's some sloppy cutting , too , and in a few instances shots even appear out of order . 
and the use of repeated footage to fabricate certain scenes ( eg . 
ships coming and going , soldiers coming and going ) is at times clearly out-of-context . 
this is the kind of thing to which lynch objected , and rightly so . 
it should also be noted that several questionable scenes and shots from the theatrical version were deleted to satisfy the censorship demands of u . s . television . 
but the most notable omission is a gratuitous piece of nonsense from lynch that wasn't even in herbert's book . 
the scene features baron harkonnen killing a beautiful young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling out his " heart plug " . 
its a surreal and disturbing episode that's very lynch-esque but adds nothing to what we already know : the baron is a nasty piece of work . 
despite its own peculiar flaws , then , the extended version of dune is a generally superior film . 
all up , it contains 35 minutes of restored footage and approximately another 15 minutes of either altered , fabricated or newly created sequences . 
unless the idiosyncratic lynch has a sudden change of heart , the " alan smithee " version remains the closest we'll get to what the movie should have been . 
on repeated viewings , one suspects it is closer than what lynch would be prepared to admit . 
still , as one of this century's great science-fiction novels , some fans and perhaps the late herbert himself would argue that dune deserved a better fate in its transfer to the screen . 
with rumours circulating of a new six hour mini-series planned by production company new amsterdam entertainment in 1998 , it is unlikely that we have heard the last of the dune saga . 

you know the plot : a dimwit with a shady past is seduced into committing a crime only to be double-crossed by a fatal femme . 
in " palmetto , " the dimwit is harry barber ( woody harrelson ) , a reporter who's just been released from prison ( he was framed by the gangsters and corrupt officials he was investigating ) . 
enter la femme : rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the sexy young wife of the richest man in palmetto , florida ( rolf hoppe ) . 
she and her stepdaughter odette ( chlo ? sevigny ) have a plot to extort 500k from the old man : harry will " kidnap " odette . 
after groping both women , harry agrees . 
as everyone except harry can see , he's being set up as a fall guy . 
sure enough , before long , harry has a dead body in his trunk and the cops on his tail . 
his brother-in-law ( tom wright ) , an assistant da , has hired harry to be the press liaison for the case , so harry gets a front row seat for his own manhunt ( and we get to watch him sweat-literally ) . 
there are several plot twists , of course-a couple of them even took me by surprise . 
apparently every woman in palmetto is a raving horndog , and they're on harry like he's the only bone in the kennel . 
shue vamps so broadly that i expected tex avery's wolf to show up . 
her incredible performance in " leaving las vegas " seems to have been a fluke . 
here , she could easily be mistaken for melanie griffith . 
shue's character is supposed to be a savvy schemer but she comes off as a brainless bimbo . 
in addition to shue and sevigny , the kennel includes gina gershon ( who filled the dimwit-with-a-shady-past role in " bound " ) as harry's girlfriend nina ; when harry gets out of jail , she licks his face ( now there's a horndog ) . 
the parts are so overplayed that with a little push " palmetto " could have been an over-the-top parody of film noir a la " romeo is bleeding . " 
as it is , it's best watched at 2am on showtime ( the love scenes seem to have been written for one of that channel's soft porn programs anyway ) . 
 " palmetto " has a well-known director , volker schl ? ndorff , who's best known for his adaptations of major literary works , especially " the tin drum . " 
i suppose he must have been drawn to this plot-by-numbers script by the same admiration for classic film noir that led scorsese to remake " cape fear . " 
schl ? ndorff tries hard-he makes an interesting motif out of the ubiquitous palmetto bugs-but nothing can freshen up this stale script . 

a slight romantic comedy with a feminist bent , but one with no edge to it . 
it turns out to be a conventional film filled with the usual clich ? s and stock characters of this genre . 
though it's a well-written and well-acted fluff piece , it still does not have too much to say that is surprising . 
it's made for the gentle art-house set , those who don't want something too disturbing to think about . 
it's about a critically successful writer husband , alec ( pryce ) , who is so self-absorbed that he's threatened by his department store floor-walking model wife , kate ( bouquet ) , who wants to be a writer . 
she meets his crass publisher , vanni corso ( walken ) , another self-absorbed man , and a predictable relationship occurs . 
the fireworks occur because she outgrows her husband's first impressions of her as someone who was impressed with his genius and worships at his feet . 
she now wants her own identity and her independence . 
the film looked like the usual sitcom stuff , and is plagued with the cheap set design features reserved for a tv movie . 
the film sagged in the middle of the story from the weight of its tedium , and eventually landed on its rear end with its unspectacular climax . 
it's set in london , and it opens as model kate rebuffs sexual advances by a wealthy american shopper , vanni . 
she later meets him as her hubby's new upstart publisher who seeks to have her intellectual author husband in his stable in order to give him credibility as a publisher of quality , and he quickly wins favor with her by publishing her vanity novel . 
alec who is an obnoxious grouse , someone whom it seems it would be impossible to live with , tries to do everything to stop his wife from having her book published--which only pushes her into the grasping arms of vanni . 
the publisher is proud that he's a mamma's boy who never married and is a self-made man who has earned millions . 
he has recently acquired a failing old london publishing house and plans to revitalize it , as he proudly tells kate : " if my father could sell pizzas in harlem , i could sell culture in europe . " 
the only thing that couldn't be sold , is this stiff story and tired plot line . 
the mystery to me , is how the lovely kate could like either man unless she was an insensitive dummy . 
she soon divorces the beleaguered alec and marries the soon-to-become-beleaguered vanni . 
when she writes a second novel , he rebuffs her the same way her first hubby did . 
it ends with the same results that happened to hubby number one , as its story of ambition and lust winds down in a whimper . 
a business affair was loosely based on the real-life literary and romantic travails of married authors barbara skelton and cyril connolly , in their celebrated 1950s love triangle . 

deep rising is one of " those " movies . 
the kind of movie which serves no purpose except to entertain us . 
it does not ask us to think about important questions like life on other planets or the possibility that there is no god . . . screw that , it says boldly , let's see some computer generated monsters rip into , decapitate and generally cause irreparable booboos to a bunch of little known actors . 
heh ! 
them wacky monsters , gotta love 'em . 
of course , since we can rent about a thousand b movies with the same kind of story , hollywood must give that little extra " oumph " to get people in theaters . 
that is where deep rising fails , which is a good thing . 
confused ? 
let me explain : 
despite all them flashy effects and big explosions , deep rising is still , at heart , a good 'ol b movie . 
luckily , it's a very good b movie . 
the worst cliches in movie history are a b movie's bread and butter . 
therefore , things that would destroy a serious movie actually help us have a good time while watching a movie of lower calibre . 
of course we know there's a big slimy creature behind that door , that one person will wander off to be picked off by said monster and we always know which persons or person will make it out alive . 
we just don't know when or how horrible it will be . 
i went to see deep rising with my expections low and my tolerance for bad dialogue high . 
imagine my surprise when i discover that deep rising is actually , well , pretty darn funny at times . 
a funny b movie ? 
well , that's new . 
these flicks are not supposed to make us laugh . 
 ( except for a few unintended laughs once a while . ) 
and before you know it , treat williams , wes studi and famke jansen appear on the big screen . 
hey ! i know them guys ( and gal ) from a couple of other movies . 
cool . 
familiar faces . 
so far so good . 
our man treat is the hero , he'll live . 
wes is a staple of b movies , he is the token victim . 
we know he'll buy the farm but he will take a few creeps with him on the way out . 
famke is the babe , 'nuff said . 
there is also a guy with glasses ( the guy with glasses always dies ) a black person ( b movie buffs know that the black guy always dies , never fails ) and a very funny , nerdy guy . 
 ( ah ! 
comic relief . 
how can we possibly explain having to kill him . . . let 
him live . ) 
after the first fifteen minutes i felt right at home . 
i know who to root for and who i need to boo too and a gum to chew . 
 ( please kill me . ) 
suffice it to say that for the next hour and a half i jumped out of my seat a few times , went " ewwww " about a dozen times and nearly had an orgasm over all the explosions and firepower our heroes were packing . 
i'm a man , we nottice these things . 
all in all , i'd recommend deep rising if you are looking for a good time and care to leave your brain at the door . . . but 
bring your sense of humor and excitement in with you . 
the acting is decent , the effects top rate . 
how to best describe it ? 
put together the jet ski scene from hard rain , the bug attacks from starship troopers , a couple of james bond like stunts and all those scenes from friday the thirteenth and freddy where you keep screaming " don't go there , he's behind you " and you end up with deep rising . 
for creepy crawly goodness , tight t-shirts , major firepower and the need to go to the bathroom every fifteen minutes from seing all that water . 

the booming introduction music finishes , and the camera sweeps over red mountains . 
we see two figures looking over a barren , and very red landscape . 
they kiss , then walk on . 
one of the characters ( schwarzenegger ) slips , and falls . 
the glass on his mask cracks . 
his face scruches up , and his eye's begin to pop . . . . . 
then doug quaid , played by schwarzenegger , wakes up . 
it's all been a dream . 
he wakes up next to his beautiful wife , played by stone , and the film begins . . . 
total recall is a typical sci-fi film wrapped around an intresting ( if far fetched ) plot . 
quaid , who has never been to mars , keeps on having dreams of the planet , which has now been colanised . 
one day , while riding on a train , he's see's a ad for a company called 'rekall' , which implants memories of a holiday , instead of you actually going there yourself . 
quaid chooses the 'secret agent on mars' memory , and then the s * * * really hits the fan . 
the implant goes wrong , and quaid really thinks he is an agent on mars for about two minutes , until he goes back to normal and can't remember a thing . 
however , everyone he knows ( his workmates , his wife ) turn against him , saying how 'blabbed about mars' and 'blew his cover on the mission' a strange man , called richter , played by ironside , wants to kill him . 
quaid , now hopelessly confused , follows the advice given to him , by a 'friend' . 
he get's his ass to mars . 
mars is ruled by cohagen , played by cox , who charges people for air . 
against him are the rebels , who are mainly mutants . 
the rebel's need quaid to defeat cohagen , because quaid knows ( but can't remember yet ) about a reactor that produces air . 
eventually , quaid kills cohagen , turns on the reactor , saves the planet , and goes away with a beautiful girl , just like the guy at rekall promised him . 
throughout this plot , there is huge explosions , thousands of deaths ( and i mean a lot of death ) swearing , sex , and everything else that make's a good verhoeven ( director of basic instinct and starship troopers ) movie . 
naturally , there's some pretty imaginative deaths , with arms getting ripped off , someone getting drilled , and heads exploding . 
as you can tell , it's violent stuff . 
but it's done so stylishly , and of course arnie tones it down with a one liner , that's it excusable . 
the acting is variable . 
arnie , of course , is useless , but he goes has some good lines , and in the first twenty minutes , he even act's like a normal bloke , not like some action hero . 
stone , of course , is useless , making a pretty poor wife , and a pretty poor action hero . 
but , she does sex scenes alright . 
ticoton ( most recently seen in con air ) , again , is ok , doing some good action , but getting her emotions all wrong . 
one minute she hates quaid , the next she loves him , and she never gets this tranisition right . 
so , the good guys are awful . 
but , the bad guy's are excellent . 
cox is basically reprising robocop , but he's still great in this , and he delivers the best line in the whole film near the end . 
ironside is superbly evil , with an utterly emotionless face . 
the supporting cast are fine , and not even the comedy sidekick ( this time in the form of a taxi driver ) is annoying . 
one disappointing aspect , though , are the special effects . 
ilm and dreamquest do some good work ( such as a subway station scene ) but the model work is not so good . 
some of the model heads look appaling fake , and quatto is a major disappointment . 
another irritating thing is the product placement . 
there are a lot of plugs ( and a good mars today gag ) however , the sets look great , and the special effects at the end of the film aren't too bad either . 
there's also a good soundtrack running through , by jerry goldsmith ( the omen , poltergeist , star trek : the motion picture ) 
overall , then , total recall is a hugely violent , yet hugely enjoyable , action fest , with a reasonable plot thrown in there too , some great bad guys , and some imaganitive death . 
for a schwarzenegger movie , this is not bad at all . 
in fact , it's very good . 

playwright tom stoppard and screenwriter marc norman took on an astonishingly difficult task : they wanted to write a script about william shakespeare that parallels shakespeare's works . 
they also wanted to poke fun at the way all of us envision shakespeare : i mean , really , who doesn't think of shakespeare as a guy seething with so much passion that he can barely write a play without exploding into a passionate , introspective verbal couplet of iambic pentameter ? 
stoppard and norman are men who love shakespeare , and they wanted to make a movie for everyone else who loves shakespeare . 
and , despite the difficulty of their task , they have succeeded . 
shakespeare in love is one of the smartest , funniest , most touching films of the year . 
it's so rare that a picture with such high aspirations succeeds in all of its endeavors , but here we have a movie that defines success : it is at once charmingly acted and flawlessly written . 
it could have been a smug , self-important movie that panders to die-hard shakespeare fans , but the appeal of this film is almost universal : if you've ever read a play by shakespeare , or know anything about his life , it's likely that you'll find grand entertainment in shakespeare in love . 
joseph fiennes , brother of ralph , stars as shakespeare himself ; he's a delightful , irresistible lad , concerned mostly with women and detached from life's more serious problems ( debt , plague , etc . ) . 
he's commissioned to write plays for various people : queen elizabeth ( judi dench ) wants comedies , while local slimeball philip henslowe ( geoffrey rush ) needs him to write a play so that he can pay off his debts to hugh fennymann ( tom wilkinson ) . 
shakespeare , however , has trouble focusing on his work . 
he begins work on a comedy about a boy named romeo and a girl named ethel . 
this all changes , however , when he meets viola de lesseps ( a radiant gwyneth paltrow ) , a young heiress set to marry the financially-oriented lord wessex ( colin firth ) . 
shakespeare instantly falls in love with her ; he first meets her when she pretends to be a man to try out for the part of romeo . 
he discovers her identity and confronts her later ; she , of course , falls in love with him , although their love is doomed because she absolutely must marry the tyrannical lord wessex . 
but she continues to act because she loves shakespeare's writing so much , and soon the production ( which later becomes romeo and juliet ) is set to be performed . 
shakespeare in love is an amazingly good film , not because it works as great entertainment , but because it pays attention to detail and knows its subject matter . 
i was instantly won over by joseph fiennes in the lead role : he has such searing optimism and energy ; he's clearly a man who admires shakespeare , and even in the shortcomings that he gives his character ( inability to turn away from women , attention deficit disorder ) , we sense a great deal of affection and care . 
he practically overflows with passion in every scene . 
fiennes is matched by paltrow ( whose english accent is so good that wonder where she actually comes from ) ; she is an actress who exudes strength and conviction in every performance i've seen her in . 
the two performers work perfectly together , taking the passionate scenes as far as possible without making them melodramatic , and wringing the comedic scenes for every conceivable laugh . 
of course , it doesn't hurt that they have a masterful script to work with . 
stoppard , whose play rozencrantz and guildenstern are dead inspired an interesting film , is full of dry wit and boundless understated humor ( all of his plays have similarly dry humor ) . 
the first intelligent step stoppard and norman took was harmonizing the events of the film with romeo and juliet . 
one of the funniest scenes in the film is an imitation of the famous terrace scene from the play ; in the movie , shakespeare is bumbling about while viola is trying to fend off her nurse maid . 
director john madden does a fantastic job dabbling in slapstick humor -- scenes like these would have seemed obtuse in the hands of a lesser director . 
i'm going to have to see the movie again ; i'm certain there are numerous references that i missed . 
in fact , i doubt it's possible to gather everything with just one viewing . 
stoppard is a master of detail : you'll notice familiar lines placed throughout the film , not as lines of a play , but as dialogue , suggesting that shakespeare simply spoke like that all the time . 
there's also a brilliant running joke in which shakespeare is in constant competition with christopher marlowe ( and the fact that marlowe is played by the openly-homosexual rupert everett is a joke in of itself ) , proposing a slightly twisted explanation to marlowe's mysterious death in a pub . 
there's also a scene featuring a wide-eyed dog that is so funny that i hurt myself laughing . 
 " there's no dog in this play ? " 
 " no ! 
no dog ! " 
the ensemble cast is perhaps the strongest this year . 
geoffrey rush is nearly unrecognizable as the detestable henslowe ; wilkinson is also hard to recognize , but has a great role as a thug who takes his part as the apothecary so seriously . 
ben affleck , playing one of the actors in the company , shows great range , both in his accent ( his is almost as good as paltrow's ) and in humor ( he has some of the best one-liners in the movie ) . 
colin firth , always stuck playing the sap , does a good job being hateful . 
judi dench , however , has the best supporting performance as queen elizabeth : rarely has so much depth been conveyed in so few words . 
my single , minor complaint about shakespeare in love is that i feel like i could have been more moved by the end . 
the story is moving , but there are a few missed opportunities in the final scenes . 
but my quibbling is not important . 
what is important is that i acknowledge the quality of this picture , the sheer skill with which it has been written , acted , and produced . 
shakespeare in love tries so many things , and nails every one of them : it's a film that both loves shakespeare and makes fun of him , a film in which the actors , writers , and director are all perfectly in sync . 
it's also a movie that has the potential to introduce a lot of people to shakespeare's work in a positive way , without seeming condescending or superior . 
i admire this film not only because it passes so pleasantly , but because it has lofty aspirations and succeeds in them . 
not just any film can poke fun at shakespeare and get away with it . 

plot : a peculiar french girl grows up lonely with her father and doesn't quite know what she wants out of life . 
one day , she falls upon something , and believes that her ticket to happiness may be in helping others . 
she starts with the people around her , but when she suddenly falls for her own guy , she can't act strongly enough because of her shy and dreamy nature . 
critique : a clever , quirky , original french flick set in a picturesque paris , featuring an endearing lead with a giant imagination , much loneliness and a little bit of love for everyone . 
this is a " feel-good " kind of movie , a fairy tale for grown-ups who are bummed out about life . 
it doesn't pretend to be deep , it doesn't weigh itself down with long expositions or intricate studies of its characters , it's basically just a " cute movie " in the same vein as chocolat and pay it forward , with some amazing visuals and incredibly nice intentions ( and if chocolat was somehow able to nab an oscar nomination for best picture last year ( a sham on so many different levels ) , you might as well slap this film up for consideration also , since it's quite a bit better and much more original than the former ) . 
one thing that this film isn't though , at least according to me , is the best film of the year ( it was bestowed the honor of " best " in at least 3 different film festivals so far this year ) . 
it actually managed to stagnate a little bit about halfway through and it just went on for way too long ( it's a little over two hours but it felt even longer ) , with much of the second half of the movie devoted to many different characters , all of whom weren't as interesting as the lead , and a lot of indecisiveness from ms . amelie herself , which got frustrating . 
thankfully , this film doesn't bog itself down with too much of that stuff , and actually goes out of its way to invent new ways to shoot scenes , to integrate moments of fantasy into its fabric and to transport the audience inside the imagination of this kind-hearted french girl . 
on the whole , it's a lot of fun and it carries a beautiful message of love and support for your fellow man . 
the lead , audrey tautou , is perfect for the role , and gives you enough moments of truth to develop her character into someone that you care about by the end of the film . 
unfortunately , the rest of the cast isn't as well-developed , and even though most of them are pretty appealing , a couple could've been left out to save time and at least one was left stranded plot-wise , by the film's end ( what happened to the guy in the caf ? who was spying on his ex-girlfriend the whole movie ? ) . 
now i haven't seen too many recent french films , i will admit , but if this is the kind of " scene " that they're developing over in " le pays du vin " , i wouldn't mind catching more of their flicks in the future ( crimson rivers was another french film that i saw earlier this year , which i really liked- ironically , that film was directed by mathieu kassovitz , who is the co-star in this film ) . 
granted , the english subtitles got a little tough to keep up with at times ( i speak and understand french also , but some of the local colloquialisms went over my head ) , especially since the film's visuals were so intriguing that you just couldn't help but constantly gawk at them , but the general idea , the background music , the nifty french neighborhoods , the very creative way of enveloping the audience into the story-line from the start , were all very easy to appreciate , and i for one was especially glad to have seen this movie during these trying times in the world . 
in fact , i'd recommend it to anyone looking for a jolly ol' time at the movie house , with a particular emphasis on folks with a lot of imagination , a little loneliness in their lives and many dreams in their hearts . 
and this guy directed alien : resurrection ? 
get outta here ! ! 
note : i especially loved the way that the script detailed and showed the loves/hates of everyone with exact mentions in the film . 
it was very original , very well shot and very nostalgic , as many of us were able to relate to the behaviors described . 
good stuff ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
chocolat ( 6/10 ) - crimson rivers ( 8/10 ) - ghost world ( 9/10 ) - like water for chocolate ( 8/10 ) - o brother , where art thou ( 7/10 ) - pay it forward ( 5/10 ) - rushmore ( 9/10 ) - woman on top ( 7/10 ) 

based on the relatively unknown ( in comparison to spider-man ) marvel comic book , blade tells the story of half-vampire half-human ( played by wesley snipes ) who was born of a vampire's latest meal . 
now swearing vengeance against all vampires , blade hunts them all . 
his latest challenge is his biggest though . . . he 
must stop the vampire deacon frost ( played by stephen dorff ) from summoning the blood god and turning the rest of the world into vampires . 
admitedly , comic books are one of the least appreciated mediums , often viewed as juvenile by most standards , even seen as illiterate by some . 
judging by a series of poorly recieved ( financial and critical ) comic book based films ( such as batman and robin , steel , barb wire , the crow : city of angels , and the list goes on ) , one would come to the conclusion that comic books are the worst medium to translate into film . 
to some degree , i agree with this sentiment . 
having read comic books since the age of nine ( i'm 21 right now ) i can count the number of good comic book based movies ( not including japanese manga ) one hand : 1 : the crow ( 1994 ) , 2 : batman ( 1989 ) , 3 : superman , 4 : the mask , and now , #5 , blade . 
 ( " men in black " is not on this list because it is an extreme deviation from the original comic book ) 
why is this ? 
for the most part , it is because the filmmakers understand 
the comic book medium and come up with an appropriate atmosphere to match . 
the crow and batman comics call for a dark gothic atmosphere , which the director provided . 
the mask features a wacky superhero with off the wall antics , which the casting and cg effects reflect . 
superman 
is not over the top with colour and flash , and the film reflects this . 
blade uses common notions of vampires and incorporates them into the film , creating an appropriate atmosphere . 
this is in stark contrast to joel schumacher's contrived vision in batman and robin , reflecting the dated atmosphere in the 1960's television show . 
batman and robin proved that the director failed to realize one fundamental fact : comics have grown up , and so has the audience ( i'm working on a scathing review of batman and robin and will post it up when i'm ready ) . 
which brings me back to blade . 
although he may be a familiar character to some , due to his appearances in the spider-man animated show on fox , one will find no single trace of the warm-and-fuzzy vampire hunter as depicted in the cartoon . 
the film depicts a vicious vampire killer that 
uses every single means at his disposal to reach his ends . 
the end results are not pretty by any means . 
the story elements work very well -- for a comic book story . 
screenwriter david goyer ( who also wrote the crow ) incorporates interesting elements of vampire lore , using science to explain many of the ideas often dismissed in vampire films . 
this is presented through karen , a hematologist portrayed by n'bushe wright . 
this leads to inventive use of standard medical treatments to kill vampires . 
add this 
to the neat little gadgets that blade uses ( including a titanium sword complete with an " anti-theft device " ) , and one has an interesting premise . 
however , the film works best as an action film . 
actor wesley snipes has 
an extensive background in martial arts ( most of which comes from capoeira , a brazillian form incorporating flashy kicks ) , choreographing every single move . 
proving that quick , flash cutting edits are no substitute for choreographed fight sequences ( see batman and robin for a 
good example of that ) , wesley snipes dazzles the audience with some incredible fight scenes . 
regardless , this film is far from perfect . 
the film suffers from at least one major plot hole , regarding the summoning of the blood god . 
the ritual requires that a number of pure blood vampires are standing on 
marked squares , yet one of them is viciously murdered , allowing the ritual to pass ( and the murdered vampire is later shown standing on the square ) . 
obvious continuity errors also surface , especially during a scene where deacon frost takes a drag on his cigarette and is not exhaling it in the next frame ( there is no trace of smoke either ) . 
much of the special effects are not that spectacular either . 
while vampire disintegration scenes are intriguing to watch , other cgi ( computer generated imagery ) effects are almost slapped together , which is surprising when given the amount of time the film was given to be released ( the film's release date was pushed back multiple times ) . 
scenes with computer generated blood look extremely fake , knocking the believability factor down a few notches ( but then , i'm really hard to impress ) . 
the film's r rating comes from gory violence , but the lack of 
realism made me wonder why it got such a rating ( for realistic violence , 
watch " saving private ryan " ) . 
the overuse of cgi in films has made me yearn for the days of director george romero and makeup wizard rob bottin , both pioneers in the art of gore without extensive use of cgi . 
still , scenes involving non-cgi special effects do surface ( and look much more impressive ) , such as one particularly gruesome scene where a vampire tries to use blade's sword without deactivating the " anti-theft device " . 
wesley snipes is the saving grace behind what would have otherwise been a muddled mess . 
while not talking much , he is a grand physical presence , leaving other comic book superheroes in the dust . 
a decent ( by comic book film standards ) storyline also helps . 

the cryptic teaser trailer has been unspooling in moviehouses for quite sometime now : " it mu5t be found . " 
so what , exactly , is the fifth element ? 
after seeing luc besson's ambitious , much-shrouded-in-secrecy science fiction fantasy , i could not help but be let down by the actual answer , which is not nearly as exciting nor clever as one would think . 
but what is far from a letdown is the film as a whole , a wildly imaginative feast for the senses that does what all the best science fiction films do--create a universe unlike any other presented on the silver screen . 
the biggest irony of the fifth element is that the one thing that has been kept under such tight wraps--the actual storyline--is the most conventional , dismayingly so , element ( pun intended ) of the film . 
speaking in the vaguest possible terms , the basics of the plot are as follows : in the year 2259 , a great force of evil threatens to consume the earth , and only the four elements--earth , wind , fire , and water--united with a fifth element can stop it . 
figuring into all of this are new york cabbie korben dallas ( bruce willis ) ; a shady , southern-drawling entrepreneur by the name of zorg ( the hilariously hammy gary oldman , picking up where he left off in besson's the professional ) ; a priest ( ian holm ) ; and a mysterious creature named leeloo ( milla jovovich ) . 
all of the pieces come together in a tidy and somewhat underwhelming--and unsurprising--fashion , but there is no denying that this basic story holds some intrinsic interest . 
what remains interesting and exciting , however , after brief glimpses is the fascinating world besson has created with production designer dan weil , director of photography thierry arbogast , visual effects supervisor mark stetson , and the crew at digital domain . 
the look is absolutely mesmerizing right from the opening moments to the last . 
the frenzied cityscape of new york , with its vibrant day-glo colors , tall buildings penetrating high into the clouds , and the swarm of cars , cabs , and other vehicles flying through labyrinthian skyways , is absolutely breathtaking to behold , especially in a wild car chase sequence early on in the film . 
but it would not have been a completely captivating vision if the people inhabiting the settings weren't equally as interesting , and are they ever . 
in addition to the exotic menagerie of alien creatures that populate this world , from bulky robots to dog-like mangalores , the humans are outfitted in costumes by eccentric designer jean-paul gaulthier , best known for creating madonna's pointy bustier get-up in her blonde ambition tour . 
gaulthier's outlandish creations , such as a number worn by leeloo made entirely out of white straps , feel more at home in besson's futuristic vision than on any fashion runway in the world ; they add to the sense of otherworldliness about the film . 
while besson's bold vision is the biggest virtue of the film , it also could be its biggest obstacle to reaching a mass audience . 
for all its imagination , certain things about the film may be a bit too quirky and bizarre . 
i really do not know what middle america will make of the most outrageous character of the film , ruby rhod ( chris tucker ) , a flamboyant disc jockey who makes dennis rodman look conservative--he makes a raucous entrance dressed in an animal print dress , sporting a blonde hairdo in the shape of a hair dryer , speaking in high pitches at rapid fire speed . 
at first this character's hyper energy is funny , but the act wears out its welcome very quickly . 
not irritating , but just as strange , is a musical number by blue-skinned alien chanteuse diva ( maiwenn lebesco ) , who sings--and dances--an aria that is an unlikely blend of classical opera and techno . 
the tune , as with the entirety of longtime besson collaborator eric serra's innovative score , is haunting , but it is also completely jarring . 
then there are the campy touches of humor besson and co-scripter robert mark kamen sprinkle throughout , which too often are silly and forced ; a comic sexual encounter between ruby rhod and a flight attendant is highly distracting and not very funny , to boot . 
the story's weakness shines through in the climax and conclusion of the fifth element . 
while still visually and aurally spectacular , the events detailed are not as exciting nor powerful as they should be . 
the big , serious dramatic climax was met with more than a few snickers , and it ambitiously strives for a profundity which the film had not even begun to work toward . 
as such , at the end there is a sense that there was something bigger at work here , that there was still more left to be said about this story and these characters . 
this suspicion was confirmed by besson himself , who told me in the lobby following the screening ( imagine that , the filmmaker watching the film with the " enemy " --the critics ) that what had made it to the screen was really just the first half of the lengthy original fifth element screenplay and that the second half--now titled mr . shadow--is still waiting to be made . 
still , despite the story problems , the fifth element is an artistic triumph for luc besson ; rarely does a filmmaker's original vision come to the screen in all its audacious , undiluted glory . 
it is a fascinating example of how of one artist's fervid imagination can transport an audience into an intoxicating fantasy world generally seen only in dreams . 

after indecent proposal and up close and personal , redford was wise to direct himself in a picture at last . 
redford may look great on-screen , but over the past few years , he's proven himself a bigger talent behind the camera . 
ordinary people is one of the best films of the nineteen-eighties , and it was the first picture he helmed . 
while the milagro beanfield war was only occasionally successful at combining magic-realism with . . . um , 
realism , and i've never been much of a fan of a river runs through it ( to the chagrin of many ) , quiz show was dazzling , energetic and convincing . 
the horse whisperer represents both his directorial return to nature films and the first time in that sub-genre redford seems equally concerned with humans and scenery . 
scott-thomas plays annie maclean , an uptight but respected new york magazine editor whose daughter grace ( johanssen ) loses a leg and a good friend when an early morning ride climaxes with their horses colliding with a semi . 
grace's horse survived , but barely , and has gone mad . 
annie refuses to put the animal out of his misery , believing that if the horse heals it will mend grace's newly-broken spirit . 
eventually , mother and daughter travel alone to montana to be with tom booker ( redford ) , a famed " horse whisperer " who has a gift of calming horses with simple looks and touches , leaving busy husband neill behind . 
eventually , they move onto the booker ranch with the rest of tom's family , and annie finds herself falling in love with all things montana , including , naturally , tom , the wise and lonely trainer . 
the horse whisperer is delicately made . 
i dare say lyrical , since to many people's ear , that word is synonymous with boring . 
hardly . 
the horse whisperer has little to offer in the way of surprise , but it does have an honesty that is refreshing and consistently enjoyable to watch , especially in the final third of the story . 
scott-thomas and johanssen seem like mother and daughter , and you have no doubt believing that the mountain vistas would put these new yorkers under a spell , especially since d . p . 
robert richardson's photography casts montana as heaven on earth . 
 ( a gimmicky but effective technique the filmmakers employ is a switch in aspect ratio from squarish to widescreen when the central location shifts from new york to montana . ) 
the underrated sam neill turns in perhaps his most heartfelt , emotive performance as the nice-guy husband , who is as authoritive and likeable as tom . 
he is indeed a refreshing change from the sexist , lout of a husband so many writers resort to as a short-cut for explaining away the cheating spouse's motivation . 
unfortunately , one of the horse whisperer's only flaws is the chemistry between would-be lovers scott-thomas and redford . 
i liked both of them , but i didn't necessarily believe that redford would fall for such a cold fish , even if the countryside air thawed her slightly . 
luckily ( and curiously ) , this is such a rich and textured movie that it doesn't quite matter-their adultery seems like an afterthought , the obligatory sub-plot that ties many of the characters' complex relationships together . 

i remember seeing the trailer of the black cauldron on the pinocchio video . 
it really scared me , and i didn't want to go see it . 
however , after i heard about how wonderful it was , i wanted to see it . 
i didn't get a chance to do so , until now . 
the film , disney's 25th animated feature , opens with a menacing shot of a great black cauldron unshrouded by mist as a narrator begins to tell the tale : a long time ago in the land of prydain , there was a king so evil , that his spirit was captured in the cauldron . 
it has been hidden for centuries , and whoever possesses it will have the power to conjure up an army of deathless warriors , and with them rule the world ? and destroy it . 
then , we meet a farmer-wizard , dallben , and his young apprentice , taran . 
taran dreams of being a warrior instead of being a `pig-keeper' ( they have a pig named hen-wen ) . 
one day , as he gives hen wen a nice warm bath , the pig goes crazy , and dallben then realizes , after watching hen wen's thoughts through a bucket of water , that taran must hide hen wen in the forest . 
an evil ruler known as the horned king is searching for the black cauldron , and only hen wen has the power to show its location . 
taran leads hen wen into the forest , but of course , he loses her , and tries to go find her . 
along the way , he meets up with a mischievous little creature named gurgi , who desires `munchings and crunchings' , much to his dismay ( besides , he stole an apple that taran was trying to use to bring back hen wen ) . 
when he hears hen wen's squeal from far away , though , he races to her rescue ? only to see her get kidnapped by dragonlike gwythants . 
taran chases after the gwythants and finds himself staring at the horned king's castle from far away . 
taran climbs the castle walls , and brings himself into the castle , where he attempts to rescue hen wen . 
he manages to do so , but he is himself captured and thrown into the dungeon . 
there , he meets princess eilonwy ( and her magic bauble , another thing which the horned king was hoping to use to find the cauldron ) , and the two escape through the deep castle walls . 
along the way , taran finds a sword in a burial chamber , and they rescue a comic bard named fflewdurr flamm , who has a harp whose strings break whenever he tells a lie . 
the three manage to escape the horned king's castle , but not before taran realizes that his sword is magic . 
as they rest in the forest , gurgi reappears , claiming to have found hen wen's trail . 
he leads taran , eilonwy and fflewdurr , by way of `pig tracks' , to a whirlpool . 
suddenly , they all get sucked under , and they meet the fairy-like fairfolk . 
taran is reunited with hen wen , and informed that the black cauldron is hidden in the land of morva . 
he then devises a crazy idea that if they can destroy the cauldron , it would prevent the horned king from destroying their world . 
with the help of a grumpy fairy named doli , the four travelers manage to find themselves at a mysterious cottage . 
it turns out to be no ordinary cottage ; three comically strange witches inhabit the place . 
when taran tells them that they are searching for the black cauldron , they agree to let him have it ? in exchange for his sword . 
taran agrees , much to eilonwy's horror , but at least they get the black cauldron . 
but ? the cauldron can't be destroyed , only its evil powers can be stopped . 
the only way to do so is for a living being to climb into it of his own free will ? never to return alive . 
things take a turn for the worse when the horned king's henchmen capture taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr , along with the black cauldron , and lead them back to the castle . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr watch in horror as the horned king unleashes the supernatural powers of the cauldron to ressurect his army of deathless warriors ( this is the most horrifying scene in the film , because here , a dead army comes alive ? ) . 
just when all seems lost , though , gurgi reappears , and rescues taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr . 
taran is about to jump into the black cauldron , but gurgi stops him , not wanting him to throw his life away . 
gurgi then jumps into the black cauldron , and the deathless warriors decay . 
taran tries to find a way to rescue gurgi , but he is forced to do battle against the horned king . 
he kicks the horned king away , who is then magically sucked into the black cauldron , where its powers immediately destroy him completely . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr manage to escape from the horned king's castle just as it self-destructs . 
the witches then reappear and attempt to take the now useless black cauldron away , but fflewdurr stops them , saying that they `never give anything away , they bargain' . 
in response to this , the witches offer taran his sword back , but taran instead has a new trade : the cauldron for gurgi . 
the trade is made ; gurgi's seemingly lifeless body reappears before the heartbroken group . 
as taran cradles him in his arms , though , gurgi stirs-he is not dead after all ! 
the happy group then returns home , where hen wen ( brought home by the fairfolk once the dangers are past ) , dallben , and even doli , await their triumphant return . 
as spectacular as it sounds , the black cauldron really suffered a lot in its past times . 
before ron miller was fired from his position as chairman of walt disney productions , he had bought a novel by lloyd alexander called the black cauldron , a sword and sorcery tale for the studio . 
bringing this book to the screen was the studio's fondest dream . 
miller , who entitled himself as the executive producer , promised that they would do so after they had proved themselves on other projects . 
when micheal eisner and his executives arrived at the disney animation studio , the animators were struggling to complete the black cauldron . 
by this time , things had gone really rocky for the animation department . 
many of the studio's old men had retired or died . 
therefore , the animators suffered a hard time making this film . 
originally budgeted at $25 million , the costs raised to $40 million because of constant changes on everything ? and when it was finally released on june 24 , 1985 , the black cauldron was greeted by praising reviews from some critics , but somehow the film flopped . 
the film was rated pg and the film , although `disneyfied' from lloyd alexander's chronicles of prydain ( which is what this film is based on ) , was much more scarier and darker than disney's other previous efforts , such as the rescuers and the fox and the hound , which is probably why so many people considered it too scary and stayed away from it . 
in addition , other critics rejected it for having `no heart' and `unmemorable' , compared to other disney animated features . 
but whatever the real reason , the black cauldron was a financial disaster , grossing only $21 million . 
the failure of the film grounded the studio's animation department , and exiled the animation team to annex buildings in nearby glendale , and it seemed like animated features would no longer become a part of the studio's reputation . 
the next two disney animated features , the great mouse detective and oliver and company , although a little more lighthearted than the black cauldron , didn't do much better ( although oliver and company grossed much more than the black cauldron and the great mouse detective ) . 
only with the little mermaid did the studio regain its reputation for successful animated features . 
as for the black cauldron , it was rereleased in some cities for a temporary time under the title taran and the magic cauldron . 
finally , the studio locked the film in the film vault and denied that it ever even was released . 
because of all this , you might ask yourself , was the black cauldron really such a bad movie ? 
the people who had seen the film didn't think so . 
in fact , many people had calls to buena vista home video requesting for the film , but of course , they denied it . 
for a while , it seemed like the black cauldron would never be released to video ? until september 1997 , disney released the black cauldron to video in the united kingdom . 
few people imported the video from england and converted to ntsc ( including me ) and for those who hadn't seen the film yet ( i am included here ) , they got quite a treat . 
but people who had bootleg copies of the black cauldron noticed that in the scene where the horned king raises his army of deathless warriors , about 12 seconds of ghoulish looking skeletons were slightly trimmed so that the film would get a u rating ( in the uk , the u rating means universal : suitable for all ages , kinda like their own version of g ) . 
somewhere online , a team of diehard the black cauldron fans signed a petition that said , `bring back the black cauldron ! ' , and because of that , disney finally decided to release the video to the united states . 
before that time , rumors online had been made that the video would be trimmed , like the uk video , so that it would get a g rating , and that they would add in songs . 
those rumors were put to rest when the walt disney company announced that the black cauldron * would * be released in its pg rated version . 
even still , when it was finally released to the us , some reaction was mixed . 
some felt that it was indeed cut , but some felt that it wasn't . 
but these where only minor criticisms which seemed laughable , since a film that was absent for thirteen years was finally available . 
as for myself , when i saw the movie for the first time ( on converted ntsc video ) , i didn't expect much at all . 
in fact , i had heard so many mediocre things about it , that i didn't think the film would ever be such a good film . 
much to my surprise , when i saw the first few minutes of the film , i was asking myself , " this is the same film everyone saw ? 
the one that flopped at the box office ? 
the one that critics and filmgoers alike called " a bad movie " ? 
this doesn't seem like all of the above . 
instead , it's a classic in its own right . 
the film has a wonderful cast of characters . 
there's taran ( grant bardsley ) , an assistant pig keeper who would rather be a warrior than a pig-keeper , the story's hero . 
the critics have said that taran is not likeable at all , but the opposite is true . 
he is brave , loyal , and eventually learns a lesson about friendship later on . 
there's a likeable character here ! 
not that he's the only likeable character in the film . 
there's gurgi ( john biner ) , a lovable little , uh , thing who remains loyal to taran , even though they don't quite hit it off at first . 
but another likeable character is the bad guy comic henchman , a dwarf named creeper ( phil fondacairo ) , who is loyal to the film's imaginative and sinister villain , the horned king ( voiced gruesomely by john hurt ) , yet he also fears his neck . 
the other characters , including the sidekicks , a spunky , but sweet princess named eilonwy and the comic bard fflewdurr flamm , and three comically wicked witches who hide a dark secret , although pleasant and likeable , aren't quite as well rounded as they should be . 
the story itself is an adventurous one , a quest involving the mystical pig , hen wen , the black cauldron itself , and an army of deathless ones with everything : a hooking opening to a spectacular finale . 
elmer bernstein's music also tells the story perfectly , in a dark , yet calming manner . 
the animation itself is surprisingly good considering that this film was created in the darkest time of the studios . 
even though there are some occasional effects that are not quite good , like the ground opening when the black cauldron rises out of the earth , the animation overall is top notch . 
overall ? this film is an entertaining endeavor . 
fans unfamiliar to the lloyd alexander chronicles of prydain will get a kick out of this one , except young kids . 
there are some extremely scary scenes which are more darker than disney's other films ( although some consider the stampede sequence from the lion king and frollo observing esmeralda in the fires of hell in the hunchback of notre dame are just as scary ) , which is the main reason why this film is rated pg . 
fans familiar to the lloyd alexander series will recognize the differences between the novel and the movie . 
even though it doesn't have all of the ingredients of a true disney film , this film is a classic in its own right , and deserves a far better chance than what it has been given . 
that better chance has finally come . 
whatever reason about why the black cauldron was such a big failure seems to have disappeared , and the film has finally achieved its place among disney's most proudest achievements . 
i can't help but think though , whatever would have happened if the black cauldron * was * a box office success ? 

jerry springer has got nothing on " wild things . " 
john mcnaughton's new thriller tackles more tawdry themes in less than two hours than springer's notoriously sleazy talk show broadcasts in two weeks -- bisexuality , threesomes , poolside catfights , slutty rich bimbos , even redneck gator-wrestling , they're all part of the movie's raucous , complex storyline . 
but even trash tv topicality can't drag " wild things " down -- this crazy campfest plays like something you'd find late-night on the usa network , only infinitely more palatable and with a solid ensemble cast . 
despite a smattering of needless scenes ( most of them sexual in nature ) , there's wicked fun to be had here . 
 " wild things " would be a guilty pleasure , only there's no guilty feeling involved in having a good time with it . 
high school guidance counselor sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) is well-liked in the town of blue bay , especially by pretty , popular kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , whose family name is among the florida yachting enclave's most financially prominent . 
hoping to take her crush to a physical level , kelly seductively slinks into lombardo's house after washing his jeep for a fundraiser , but , the very next day , tearfully admits to her trollop mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped . 
before long , blue bay detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) are listening to similar allegations from kelly's rebel classmate suzie toller ( neve campbell ) . 
lombardo , who maintains his innocence , hires neck brace-sporting , opportunistic lawyer ken bowden ( bill murray ) to defend him in court . 
the previews give away the following revelations , so if you haven't seen any of the movie's spots on the television or in the theater , you might want to skip to the next paragraph . 
while cross-examining suzie on the witness stand , bowden gets her to break down and admit that the alleged rapes never took place -- that kelly had concocted this entire scheme because she was angry that lombardo was sleeping with her mother and not with her . 
to pay lombardo for the damages , kelly's mother breaks her daughter's trust fund and gives him $8 . 5 million . 
but lombardo , kelly and suzie are actually all working together , and plan to take the money and run as fast as they can . 
duquette and perez , however , begin to suspect that there's more afoot to the case than just false accusations . 
if there's a major drawback to " wild things , " it's that it's oversexed to a fault . 
the much-talked-about hotel room menage-a-trois between dillon , campbell and richards is a turn-off . 
it's also cut short ( sorry , guys ) , and should have been cut shorter -- the movie grinds to a halt for pure titillation once too often . 
what we don't see is far more effective than what we do . 
another example of this is kevin bacon needlessly going the full monty in a shower scene . 
er , no thanks . 
also , bacon's duquette feels simultaneously underdeveloped and overwritten . 
daphne rubin-vega , from broadway's " rent , " tries to compensate for a superfluous character . 
theresa russell is just plain wooden . 
and when , in the end , all is out in the open , ask yourself if certain scenes involving these three were really necessary . 
but what keeps the movie from being throwaway junk is an engaging chain of surprises ( some predictable , some not ) that never seems to end . 
 " wild things " has more twists than a crate full of corkscrews , and most are so gleefully , over-the-top nasty that you can't help but be charmed by their absurd showmanship . 
a great deal of amusement also comes from watching bill murray in a supporting part that appears to have been written for his sly comedic talent ; murray's a stitch , especially when pulling up beside the van ryan limo after winning lombardo's case and flipping them off . 
and don't leave when the closing credits hit the screen , or you'll miss the film's best part -- four bonus flashbacks that smooth over plot holes while offering a few more tiny turns , plus a final scene that caps everything off with a great stunner of a bombshell . 
speaking of bombshells , denise richards , who plays almost every scene in a blue bikini top , does the teen tease thing with a malicious allure that she was never allowed to flaunt in " starship troopers . " 
matt dillon flexes his sleepy-voiced sex appeal , and pulls off personality changes with chameleonic precision . 
neve campbell , lovely as ever except when sporting a blond wig , gives suzie a vengeful vulnerability that makes her the most interesting member of the conspiring trio . 
re-edited and toned down a bit , the dynamics between these three actors could have carried the film to greater lengths . 
but what we're given works well enough . 
 " wild things " is highly entertaining and , indeed , very wild . 

brian depalma needs a hit * really * badly . 
since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987 , depalma has seen casualties of war , raising cain and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames . 
consequently , it would be easy enough to consider carlito's way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma , reteaming with al pacino ( scarface ) and returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes . 
it doesn't hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story and brought out dynamite performances from pacino and sean penn . 
carlito's way , while hampered by depalma's characteristic excesses and stylistic cannibalism , is a truly tense and engrossing drama . 
carlito brigante ( pacino ) is a life-long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance . 
in 1975 , carlito is released from prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality . 
he declares himself reformed , tired of life on the streets and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying into a rental car business in the bahamas . 
among those who find this conversion hard to believe are david kleinfeld ( penn ) , carlito's crooked attorney and childhood friend , and bodyguard pachanga ( luis guzman ) . 
carlito rediscovers old flame gail ( penelope ann miller ) , and seems ready to retire in peace . 
old ways die hard , though , and old associates pull carlito step by step back into a life he can't seem to shake . 
carlito's way will probably make the strongest impression with the two outstanding set pieces which bracket the film . 
in the first , carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone with a pulse on the edge of their seat ; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway and grand central station . 
both highlight depalma's gift for choreographed mayhem , and these are not the only occasions when the stage blood flows freely . 
yet for all the viscera , i found the character study even more compelling . 
carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him , an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit . 
but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera , there's more of an immediacy to carlito's way , an ever-present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion . 
you sense that there's no way , after so many years , that carlito can stay out of trouble . 
indeed , he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart : " you don't get reformed ; you just run out of wind . " 
pacino captures carlito's dilemma with surprising subtlety and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy . 
sean penn is even better , turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld . 
a jew in the world of puerto rican and italian wiseguys , kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder . 
he could have been simply pathetic , a heavy drinker and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league , but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy and an overwhelming survival instinct . 
he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink , making the moment he goes over quite jolting . 
as compelling as the narrative is , viewers may experience a profound sense of deja vu . 
depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors , this time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas . 
he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms , like a 360 degree swing around a kiss ( vertigo via body double ) and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the train station sequence from the untouchables . 
from a story standpoint , there's an obligatory love story with a cliche'd long-suffering girlfriend character . 
penelope ann miller is a good but limited actor who doesn't do anything new with the role , and eventually she becomes just a distraction , never integrated fully enough into the story . 
still , it's easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid . 
the two principle characters held an iron grip on my attention , one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn't break . 
carlito's way plays like a tragic novel : deliberate , confident and powerful . 
those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well- rewarded . 

watching the movie , i vowed to subtract half a star from the review because the filmmakers included a saccharine syrup , cute 'n cuddly , computer-generated monkey . 
if the monkey died , the movie got an extra half star . 
alas , the monkey showed up at the end , unharmed , to the wet sickly sound of gagging and rolling eyeballs . 
what that means is that lost in space actually deserved 2 stars . 
that's pretty generous , considering the movie's camp lacked any hint of tongue in cheek . 
when will robinson ( jack johnson ) teaches his pet robot about friendship , you are actually supposed to buy it . 
so why such a seemingly high rating ? 
there are a few reasons that made me unable to throw away the experience with the garbage . 
first , we saw the movie on opening night of the first day of operation of a brand new theater . 
the sound and screen kicked ass . 
nobody in the country enjoyed the movie as much as my audience did ( and i don't necessarily mean that in a good way ) . 
also , there were more than zero scenes where i found myself rooting for the robinsons , or getting caught up in the movie's tension . 
i even liked the computer-generated settings . 
i usually prefer to see models or sets , but the cg was more detailed than i've seen in a lot of movies ; it looks like someone spent a little overtime to render some of the futuristic cities . 
also , gary oldman is never a bad actor , even though he is typecast as a villain . 
william hurt isn't too bad either . 
neither actor had a great role , but their performances were watchable . 
and perhaps i shouldn't admit this , but something about the tone and outlook of the movie brought me back to my childhood . 
there is very little swearing or blood ; there is a strong moral message , saccharine though it is ; there is a bit of romance ( whose culmination after 2 hours is a " real " kiss -- no sex ) . 
it felt like one of those disney movies that i so looked forward to when i was six . 
those movies were probably as bad as lost in space , but at the time , they were manna from heaven . 
that type of moviemaking is a lost art . 
now for the bad news . 
worst and most unforgivable was the incredibly bad dialogue . 
it's squeaky-clean , family fun , trying hard to be as hip as pulp fiction . 
 " you better hold on to your joystick , " is one such line . 
and when a robinson is called upon to deliver a line about warp conduit thingamajigs , they inevitably stumble badly enough to embarrass even the lowliest star trek ensign . 
second worst , and closely related , is the screenplay . 
the story's exposition takes place at a press conference , which allows the writers to explain what's happening with the least amount of creativity , effort , or interest . 
once the story gets going , i do concede a momentary burst of interest once in a while , but on the whole , the situations that arise are silly and contrived . 
when gary oldman easily reprograms will's pet robot to kill the robinsons , my friend summed it up perfectly : " he flipped the switch to 'evil . ' " 
then there's the tone of the movie . 
the colorado daily said the film would have been more interesting if the central character was will robinson and not his father john robinson . 
then it could be an adventure movie . 
they're mostly right , except that johnson ( will ) wasn't a good enough actor to carry it off . 
still , that the film has the robinson patriarch as our hero shows a lack of imagination . 
just because a movie is tame enough for kids doesn't mean that we have to bow to a " promise keepers " notion of who's the center of a family . 
many quality family films have been made with a non-traditional family structure ( fly away home comes to mind ) to much better effect . 
and the politics of the time seem a bit conservative and regressive for a futuristic movie . 
in star wars , the rebels were the good guys . 
we were rooting for those who were fighting against the system . 
in lost in space , the rebels are the bad guys , a terrorist force that must be killed , crushed and silenced so that our children may live free . 
that ominous excuse for violence almost makes me sympathize with the terrorists . 
finally , a few specific details deserve criticism . 
the movie tells us that the setting is the year 2056 . 
why ? 
why bother saying what year this is . 
just tell us it's the future . 
i bring it up because the tv series was supposed to take place in 1997 . 
setting a specific date only dates the movie and guarantees that it won't be timeless ( not that this movie was really in the running anyway . ) . 
then there is a scene that shows john robinson checking one of his controls on a chair that rises about fifteen feet on a pole . 
this silly waste of money reminded me of bugs bunny's barber chair , and only shows that the future is a time when spaceship designers haven't learned a thing about ergonomics . 
one vaguely redeeming quality is that the end credits succeed where the rest of the film failed : it made lost in space look cool . 
the strong techno beat sampled the cheesiest dialogue and , out of context , made it sound hip . 
this is overlaid on a cool jumpy credit sequence with interesting distorted clips from the movie . 
but if that's the best part of the movie , i can't in good conscience recommend it . 
still , if you get stuck seeing it , as we did , you might be able to appreciate it if you keep your distance , think of liking bad movies as a child , and bring along your " bad movie bingo " cards . 

ready to rumble is not a masterpiece in film ; i have a problem even regarding it as a film . 
it's more of a show , a big commercial for ted turner's world championship wrestling ( wcw ) . 
the movie is almost entirely about and fully showcases the wrestlers of the wcw like diamond dallas page , goldberg , and sting . 
the story is very minimal and basic . 
there are these two guys , gordy ( david arquette ) and sean ( scott caan ) . 
they are two twenty-something wrestling fans from wyoming . 
when they go to a live event for the big match up , there favorite wrestler jimmy king ( oliver platt ) is defeated and his career is announced to be over by the mean commissioner titus ( joe pantoliano ) . 
gordy and sean decide to go on a quest to find jimmy and bring him back to the top and defeat the evil titus' plans . 
on the way , they meet some people , have some fun , and clean up some port-o-potties . 
sounds great huh , well it's not . 
the movie makes many attempts at humor , only a few of them work . 
the jokes that make you laugh , however , do not outnumber the film's many duds . 
there is a funny repertoire between arquette and a convenience store cashier played by ahmet zappa . 
the cashier is very mean to arquette so arquette dreams of ways to get him back . 
i especially enjoyed one version in which they have a wrestling match and arquette's tag team partner is 'macho man' randy savage . 
they wrestle between the aisles knocking over cans and getting body slammed on the floor . 
the other good part of the film is the sexual confrontation between arquette and rose mcgowan . 
mcgowan plays sasha the head nitro girl , the cheerleaders of the wcw . 
she becomes attracted to gordy and they have some nice , funny scenes together especially one scene in which arquette calls mcgowan's breasts foreign objects than punches her directly into the face . 
now what didn't work in this movie ? 
that would be the rest of it . 
the flick was filled with stupid potty humor about farts and toilets . 
the two lead characters work for a port-o-potty cleaning company and when they crash the truck , the excrements spill all over the road . 
it's not funny ; it's pathetic and brainless . 
the film is giving homage to how blindly faithful of their wrestlers but not all wrestling fans are that way . 
i watch it for entertainment and i would think some people would take offense to what is said throughout the movie . 
the main characters in the film actually get to wrestle , like that would happen to any fan , especially to 2 that stalk a wrestler and sneak him back onto set . 
also , i wondered how they got into the backstage so easily ; they just walked right in . 
i like wrestling . 
i watch it at home and laugh . 
it's continuously funny and has great characters otherwise i wouldn't watch it . 
this movie wasn't even funny or fun to watch like the wrestling on tv . 
the only fun i had in the movie was pointing out the wrestlers i knew . 
the funny thing was that many of the wcw featured wrestlers like saturn and chris benoit have left wcw for more money but are still featured in the film prominently . 
the movie was too dim-witted to be funny . 
it is possibly the most useless and under-developed film ever . 
a recent film in this genre of fans would be the kiss fan film , detroit rock city . 
that movie was interesting , well done and continuously funny unlike this film . 
the acting was good plus the jokes had humor and made you laugh . 
now that the scream trilogy is over , arquette has nothing else to do so he has to do crap like this and be a spokesman in those dumb 1-800-call-att ads . 
at least he has a hot wife in courtney cox . 
he's in the funny parts of the film but there aren't enough to make him look good . 
the music was bad also feature such overplayed tunes as kid rock's " bawitdaba " and " cowboy " . 
martin landau has a great cameo as a classic , hard-nosed wrestling trainer named sal that whips the king back into shape to regain his throne . 
script is important to a film but this piece of crap could have been made with a couple of scribblings on a napkin . 
a fan of the wrestlers who are featured in the film probably wrote it . 
at times the movie even tries to show wrestling as real . 
the wrestlers form alliances , go to people's houses and beat them up . 
it's utterly ridiculous . 
the whole film was a wasteful , dumfounding experience . 
the movie was made to pay homage to the fans , telling them things that made wrestling , not the wrestlers . 
the wrestlers are making more money to make a movie to thank the fans for begin fans by paying 5 dollars to see a potty-humor movie . 
the wcw sucks and this movie is just a pathetic two-hour commercial to watch it . 
if you're going to watch wrestling watch wwf , it's actually entertaining . 
the wrestling is betters , they're funnier , more diverse , and have better entrance themes . 
oh and the girls are hotter . 
is this what movies have become , 2 hour-long commercials that you have to pay to see ? 
don't waste your money . 

the caveman's valentine starring samuel l . jackson , ann magnuson , aunjanue ellis , tamara tunie screenplay by george dawes green , based on his novel directed by kasi lemmons 
 * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net 
| now with search engine * * * 
a strange mixture of _shine_ , _basquiat_ , _angel heart_ , and grant morrison & dave mckean's graphic novel " arkham asylum " , _the caveman's valentine_ is a feverish tale of a homeless madman-cum-detective who , on the morning of february 14th , discovers a " valentine " just outside his new york cave : one of ella fitzgerald's strange fruit , stuck in the crotch of a tree--a young male model murdered and frozen to a branch . 
believing at first that his imagined nemesis stuyvesant , shooting evil rays into his mind from atop the chrysler building , is responsible for the murder , romulus ( samuel l . jackson ) is put on the trail of an avant-garde photographer in the mapplethorpe mould , david leppenraub ( colm feore ) . 
his minor sleuthing interrupted by the occasional delusional fit and bouts with an ecstasy of creation ( romulus was a brilliant julliard-trained pianist prior to his psychosis ) , romulus uncovers clues and harasses suspects on his way to convincing his police-woman daughter ( aunjanue ellis ) that even though he's a nut , that doesn't mean that he can't solve a high-profile society murder . 
every moment an exhausting workshop of ideas , and every character the same , _the caveman's valentine_ is a concept so " high concept " that it suddenly became clear to me that the film fits into the comic book genre of entertainment , with romulus's " caveman " a slightly more mundane version of todd mcfarlane's urban noir hero , spawn . 
with a long-vanished wife ( tamara tunie ) acting as a spiritual guide , the occasional social caste commentary , the secret base in a cave , a divergent genius personality with a network of informants and supporters , and a wickedly colourful arch-enemy , the film piles on the lurid comic book details and dizzying slapdash colours to such a lavish extent that i was vaguely surprised that the blue police cars weren't inscribed with " gotham pd . " 
that being said , _the caveman's valentine_ can only really succeed as a heroic fantasy , a frank miller graphic novel that has the audacity to portray the blood staining a field of virgin snow expanding to form the shape of a heart . 
the difficulties with the film spring from the misunderstanding that it somehow adheres to the conventions of a thriller or a police procedural when , in fact , _the caveman's valentine_ is a superhero fable that takes on the cause of the homeless ( again like mcfarlane's spawn ) while attacking the entrenched ruling classes in government and the arts . 
it is no small detail that our hero , romulus , is not only named for a member of the ruling class who lived his life ( in legend ) without knowledge of his royal birth , but also that our romulus has turned his back on the comforts of the literati in favour of a mystical existence living in a cave in a park . in the romulus mythology , signs of romulus' royal blood is brought by twelve vultures , while in the film , the call to action for our hero comes in the form of not the carrion birds , but of the carrion itself . 
whether or not romulus of _the caveman's valentine_ will found a nation , or , in the case of novelist george dawes green , upon whose novel his own screenplay is based , a franchise , the fact remains that _the caveman's valentine_ is easily the most misunderstood film of 2001 thus far . 
it , along with m . night shyamalan's _unbreakable_ , is a mature cinematic extrapolation of the graphic novel format which has , since miller's seminal " the dark knight returns " , redefined the comic medium as one suitable for mature ruminations on psychologically sticky topics . 
readers of sam keith's brilliant " the maxx " comic series ( or of mtv's short-lived animated adaptation of the same ) are already familiar with the idea of a homeless man placed in the position of knight errant and king of his own twisted demesne . 
the failure of both " the maxx " tv show and of _the caveman's valentine_ ( not forgetting the initial backlash against _unbreakable_ ) suggests that the public may not be ready for america's surprising contributions to dark fantasy . 
luxuriantly lit , brashly saturated , and comic-panel framed with a virtuoso grace by cinematographer amy vincent ( _death in venice , ca_ ) , while inhabiting robin standefer's ( _practical magic_ ) mesmerizing sets , _the caveman's valentine_ is an unremittingly gorgeous film . 
kasi lemmons , following up her brilliant 1997 debut , _eve's bayou_ , which played on similar themes of manufactured realities and mysticism , fulfills much of her immense promise with a tale of seraphs and lost boys , artists and suffering . 
_the caveman's valentine_ is an elegant and piquant expression of hope for justice in a tilted landscape . 
clearly not for every taste , when approached with the correct paradigm , it is one of the most stunning and intensely fascinating films of the year : a redefinition of the hero archetype for a post-modern audience with urine-stained wool trench coats in place of blue tights and red capes . 
_the caveman's valentine_ is a fine and a courageous film , crazy enough to suggest that the delirious yammering of an idiot savant is the best and truest paladin of order in the chaos of eliot's rat's alley wasteland . 

ultra low budget but extremely inventive horror film about a group of friends vacationing in a cabin who accidentally awaken an evil force in the woods via the necronomicon , the book of the dead . 
bruce campbell stars as ash , who eventually becomes the sole survivor and has to battle both the demons from the woods , and his friends who have become demons ( including his own girlfriend ) . 
the results shown on screen are amazing considering the film's tiny budget , constant location changes , and a filming schedule that was sporadic over two years . 
followed by two sequels : evil dead ii ( 1987 ) and army of darkness ( 1993 ) . 
the dvd release of this film from elite entertainment contains the film in it's original aspect ratio of 1 . 33 : 1 . 
the disc contains two versions of the film's audio : a stereo 2 . 0 track and a newly remastered dolby digital 5 . 1 . 
included are two separate running commentary tracks : the first features writer/director sam raimi and producer rob tapert and the second track features the film's star , bruce campbell . 
campbell's commentary is informative and extremely witty , as he has a story to tell for virtually every scene in the film . 
such informative tidbits include : the original title of the film was going to be book of the dead ( and in fact when the film premiered in 1981 that was it's title ) and when they were asked to change the title to the evil dead , everyone thought it was the worst title they had ever heard . 
also , there's a scene early on in the film where the group sits around and listens to a tape recorder which they've found that's explaining about the demonic forces in the woods . 
for that scene , it was written for the characters to be smoking marijuana , so being the wacky kids that they were at the time , they decided to actually smoke marijuana for the scene . 
almost all of that footage became unusable because many of the actor's had never smoked before , and as a result they became " confused " and were unable to perform the scene . 
i wish the entertainment factor was as high for the sam raimi/rob tapert audio track . 
the two people you'd think would be more enthusiastic in talking about this film instead barely have much to say at all . 
don't get me wrong here , when they do speak it's entertaining to hear , but there are many instances where both are silent for long periods of time . 
sometimes after one of those long silences rob will ask " have anything to say sam ? " 
to me , that's not a good sign . 
also , it seems like sam raimi doesn't remember much about the film and it's production . . . 
well , compared to rob and bruce anyway . 
also included on the disc is a photo gallery ( which includes pictures from the film's " gala " premiere ) and about twenty minutes of raw footage from the film . 
this raw footage really shows you how much a film can be improved upon using simple audio techniques . 
overall , the evil dead is a good low budget horror film , superior to many films in it's genre . 
and the collector's edition dvd release is well worth your time if you're either a fan of the film or just a fan of the filmmaking process . 
all special edition dvds should be this thorough and entertaining . 

there are certain people in the world who have some talent that very few people have , but they chose not to take advantage of this for some personal reason . 
 " good will hunting " is about one of those people . 
the will hunting of the ( horrible ) title ( let's face it , this film would be a bitch to title ) , played by co-writer matt damon , is a mathematical genius . 
he can do almost any mathematical connundrum in about the time it takes to brew a cup of irish cream cappuccino . 
and he works at mit . . . as the janitor . 
one day , the professor of one of the most challenging courses , proffessor lambeau ( " breaking the waves " 's stellan skarsg ? rd ) , puts a big problem on the board for his students to attempt to complete . 
the next day , it's already done on the board , but no one in his class claims to have done it . 
so lambeau puts another problem on the board , this time one that took he and his colleagues over two years to prove . 
and , duh , it's done again . 
of course , they catch the guy who did it red handed - will . 
before lambeau can find will again ( he ran away when he caught him ) , will has gotten into a fight with a bunch of punks on a basketball court , and struck a police officer , so lambeau gets him out on probation with two agreements : a ) he work with him on math , and b ) he get some therapy . 
after going through some therapists whom he psyches out in one way or another ( for a hypnotist , he fakes being under his spell , then launches into an impromptu performance of the 70s classic , " afternoon delight " ) . 
finally , lambeau's old college roomate , sean mcguire ( robin williams ) , a psych professor , agrees to treat him , and the two begin a rocky relationship , as sean tries to get will to open up . 
turns out will had a rough childhood , being abandoned , and placed in foster homes and what not . 
it also turns out that will does not want to do simple mathematics all his life ; he wants a challenge . 
and that is to hang out with his buds ( including the other co-writer , ben affleck ) , and do honorable jobs , like construction . 
is it right to make this genius follow in the footsteps of einstein and kasinsky ? 
should this guy be forced to do something he doesn't want to do ? 
this appears to be one of the million questions in this film , which is jam-packed with greatness , but does not have the totally brilliant whole it should . 
i'm not saying " good will hunting " is a bad film at all . 
it's a very enjoyable film with tons of great moments , and lots of great things about it . 
the acting is amazing , with two oscar-nomination-worthy performances from damon and williams , who have amazing chemistry together . 
we also get some great support from stellan skarsg ? rd ( great name ) , ben affleck , and from minnie driver , who plays will's love interest , skylar . 
there are tons of individual moments that i adored . 
i loved all the comedy in the film , especially a scene where damon proves a schmuck out of a college student who is quoting a historian to impress some chicks , his various attempts at therapy , and of course , my favorite scene in the entire film , the one where he delivers a long , exstensive rant to some nsa agents about the downside of working for them . 
i liked the relationship between some of the people , like will and skylar , will and sean , sean and lambeau , and will and his friends . 
there are scenes between them which are just amazing to watch . 
and there are even moments in the film which are so honest in their portrayal , that i felt rightfully uncomfortable . 
like the break-up scene between will and skylar , will and sean's first meeting , a bar scene between sean and lambeau , and a scene where sean tells in detail how he doesn't regret meeting his first wife , who would later suffer a slow , painful death , and leave him lonely and slightly bitter . 
however , the main flaw of the film is there's too much of everything , and not enough of it either . 
the film tries for deeper relations between the characters , but they're sometimes either overwritten or underwritten . 
take for example the relationship between sean and will : the film gets an interesting father/son as well as doctor/patient relationship going with out any problems , but when it tries to show them as equals , it falls on its face . 
we hear how they went to the same town , and there are even scenes where the film shows how hypocritical both of them are at times . 
but this never takes off like the other parts of their relationship do . 
also , will's relationship with his best friend , chuckie ( affleck ) , has a nice climax , but not enough rising action . 
we see them joking around , but when chuckie arrives at a decision between the two of them , it seems more like a superficial reasoning than a more selected one . 
their relationship never goes beyond " just best friends , " and his decision just seems to be a generalization of any two best friends instead of something more . . . human . 
maybe it was just me . 
and it also goes for a parallelism with the relationship between sean and lambeau , but that , again , is underwritten . 
and , of course , as in most films like this , the girl/boy relationship is pretty underwritten . 
we never understand what they see in each other , so when skylar confesses that she loves him , it seems more like it's there for plot details that anything else . 
minnie driver is interesting , though , and breathes life into her character . 
the writing is a bit at fault here , but what makes all this worthwhile is the little moments in the film where it acheives true awesomeness . 
sure , it feels overstuffed , but it's extremely enjoyable . 
the dialogue that affleck and damon have written is amazingly fresh , and seems extremely human . 
i think that they should get a nomination for their script chiefly because of the dialogue , which is amazing . 
while this is probably director gus van sant's most conservative film ( you'd hardly know it's the same director of " to die for , " the only van sant film i've seen , really ) , it's still a pretty remarkable film , albeit a tad overrated ( what's this " best picture " deal ? ) . 
and if a film puts a smile on my face despite posessing a lot of flaws , i have no problem with reccomending it to anyone . 

what would inspire someone who cannot write or act to pen and star in a movie ? 
a better question , what would inspire a studio to produce said movie ? 
if you have an answer , let me know . 
foolish , the new movie written by and starring master p is a jaw-droppingly horrible film , one with no redeeming value socially , cinematically or otherwise . 
comedically it has some potential , but only in its stand-up comedy moments , which i can turn on comedy central for . 
master p stars as fifty dollah' ( beat that ! ) as a mobster ( i think ) who is trying to start a comedy club/act with his little brother foolish ( eddie griffin ) . 
but the two of them have to deal with an angry mob boss ( played by andrew dice clay , for the very first time entertaining ) , a stubborn club owner and family problems ( the latter in foolish is a perfect example of roger ebert's " idiot plot , " if everyone here wasn't an idiot , there would be no problem ) 
so what does foolish have to offer beside a bunch of idiotic character names ? 
not a hell of a lot . 
as i have mentioned , master p cannot act or write . 
he acts like the rapper that he is . 
the occasional despair that his script requires him to exhibit is excruciatingly forced , as are his warm and fuzzy scenes with his little bro . 
as for his script -- well , i suppose he delivers what one would expect from a musical artist with no previous screenwriting experience . 
if you haven't yet figured it out , that is not saying much . 
co-star eddie griffin ( really the star of the show ) is quite a different story . 
the fact of the matter is that griffin , whose most significant screen outing to date is probably the mildly successful tv show malcolm and eddie on the fledgling upn network , is an extremely talented comedian , stand-up and otherwise . 
he has much in common with chris tucker ( rush hour , money talks ) in how quickly and effortlessly his speech flows from his lips . 
he spouts profanity with impressive dexterity ( to the extent which that can be done ) , and while i hope that does not become his trademark it works in a few scenes in this movie . 
and indeed , i laughed at a few stand-up scenes here , but from a feature-length movie i expect more . 
foolish provided me with no reason to care for these characters . 
every scene which has any potential for dramatic impact is effectively diffused by either a stupid joke ( in a scene where tension escalates between the two brothers , foolish blurts out towards his jewelry-sporting sibling " you lay one hand on me and this cemetary is going to be a gold rush " ) or something even more idiotic such as foolish smashing his own car ( to which i said , a bit too loudly for the occasion " huh ? " ) after getting slightly upset with his wife . 
believe me when i say that there is nothing in foolish that warrants parting with your hard-earned $8 . 
you'll get more laughs from watching 30 minutes of comedy central or any virtually any sitcom if you don't have cable . 
eddie griffin fans may enjoy this derivative ( although offensive ) yarn , but everyone else should stay the hell away . 
&#137 ; 

>from writer and director darren stein comes jawbreaker , the poorly told tale of what can happen when an innocent birthday prank goes wrong . 
at reagan high , four girls are sitting on top of the world . 
courtney shane , played by rose mcgowan , holds the title of meanest , most disrespectful soul in the school . 
everyone hates her , but everyone envies her due to her popularity . 
courtney is the " leader " of her clique , which also includes julie , played by rebecca gayheart , liz purr , played by charlotte roldan , and marcie , played by julie benz are the other three in the group . 
it is liz's seventeenth birthday , and julie , courtney , and marcie concur that they will play a seemingly innocent prank on her , but the prank results in the death of liz . 
just like stupid teens in any teen directed film such as this one , the foursome decide to cover up the death to make it look like a murder committed by someone else . 
and also just like in other teen directed movies , one of the four don't agree with hiding it , this time that character being julie . 
and finally , just like in other teen movies , there is a witness outside the group trying to hide the truth . 
this time that character being fern mayo ( judy greer ) , who is subject to many cracks from courtney's group , as well as the entire school . 
>from here , jawbreaker turns into a predictable tale of revenge , bad morals , and at least trying to do the right thing . 
not only is the script weak , on a whole the acting is horrid thanks to a large amount of the main cast . 
judy greer is undeniably awful as her one dimensional , annoying character , as she overacts every line she has . 
also on the bad side of acting is julie benz , almost falling to the annoying factor that greer delivers . 
on the positive side of acting , rose mcgowan performs well here , but doesn't match her wickedly clever performance as " tatum " , in 1996's scream . 
mcgowan's role is annoying , but this only adds to the film . 
she is wickedly mean , and even though she a well-written character , you downright hate her . 
faring even better than mcgowan is rebecca gayheart , who is always exceptionally believable as her roles . 
when the script feeds her a one or two dimensional character , she turns it into three , always putting strong emotion and power into her roles . 
gayheart isn't given as much to do here as she was in 1998's urban legend , but you can still get a strong taste of her acting skills in jawbreaker . 
jawbreaker drifts and mianders different sub plots throughout , hardly throwing anything for the viewer to get absorbed in . 
we get way off of the topic of the jawbreaker incident , and get into things that don't have anything to do with the actual film . 
the beginning and ending are strong , it's just the middle that needs a lot of help . 
during the body of the movie , it is undeniably repetitive , never progressing towards a conclusion . 
nothing to grab the viewer's interest is around , and the same , extremely annoying song plays over and over again . 
jawbreaker tries to get off on the same time of humor used in the 1995 film clueless , but falls flat . 
the few gags that actually work die off quickly and die off with a bang . 
all in all , a horrible disappointment . 
the bottom line : the tagline reads , " even the sweetest candies are sour as death inside . " 
yes , that is too true . 
no matter how good this film may have looked , it fails to deliver . 

there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last . 
george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy . 
return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films . 
the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone . 
instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears . 
even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around . 
with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman . 
return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back . 
luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine . 
their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt . 
it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play . 
from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch . 
as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor . 
so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks . 
there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader . 
return of the jedi has some interesting elements . 
the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted . 
from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films . 
not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved . 
on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects . 
in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch . 
the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films . 
by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas . 
the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific . 
as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for . 
newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars . 
although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment . 
with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang . 
congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come . 
 , 

towards the middle of " the sweet hereafter , " a crowded school bus skids on an icy road surface as it rounds a bend , careens through the steel guard rail , and disappears out of sight . 
then , in long shot , we see the vehicle slowly sliding across what looks like a snow-covered field . 
it pauses for a moment before the " field " cracks under the bus' weight and the bright yellow vehicle vanishes in an effortless moment , a single smooth second of time . 
compare that scene , if you will , to the last eighty minutes of " titanic , " when the behemoth sinks slowly and spectacularly to its watery demise , and you'll appreciate the futility of comparing greatness in films . 
the scene in " the sweet hereafter " epitomizes all that's right with independent canadian director atom egoyan's film . 
it's not sensational . 
we don't see the inside of the bus with its payload of screaming , terrified children being bloodied and battered about . 
the bus doesn't explode or break into a thousand tiny pieces . 
it simply leaves the road and silently slips beneath the surface of a frozen lake . 
it's a horrifying sequence made all the more so by calm and distance . 
using a non-linear approach to his narrative , egoyan shifts back and forward in time , connecting us with the inhabitants of the small british columbian town who have been severely affected by this tragedy . 
fourteen children died in the accident , leaving their parents and the town itself paralyzed with grief . 
the catalyst at the center of the film is ambulance chaser mitchell stephens ( a wonderfully moving performance by ian holm ) , who comes to sam dent to persuade the townsfolk to engage in a class action suit . 
stephens , who " doesn't believe in accidents , " functions as a concerned , involved observer , scribbling details in his notebook and providing the parents with an opportunity to reach some kind of closure in the harrowing aftermath . 
while stephens' initial drive may be financial ( one third of the total settlement if he wins ) , his involvement provides him more with an outlet to come to grips with his own loss . 
his self-destructive , drug-addicted daughter has been in and out of clinics , halfway houses and detox units for years . 
egoyan's attention to detail and ability to establish mood are so impeccable that even the sound of a kettle boiling resonates like a plaintive cry . 
mychael danna , who composed the shimmering music for " the ice storm , " contributes another memorable score that shivers and tingles . 
equally impressive is paul sarossy's cinematography , capturing the imposing canadian mountainsides and low-hanging fogs as splendidly as his shadowy interiors--in one scene a bright wall calendar serves to illuminate portions of a room . 
 " the sweet hereafter , " while undeniably grim , urges the viewer to grab onto life with both hands and not let go . 
it's a film of generous subtlety and emotion . 

the kids in the hall are an acquired taste . 
it took at least a season of watching their show on hbo before i became a believer . 
maybe after watching a half dozen kids in the hall movies , they would grow into the big screen . 
my recommendation is that , unless you are a big fan of the kids , skip the film . 
as it is , their first--and most likely only--attempt at a full length film lacks the qualities that made their comedy work on tv . 
a big-budget and glossy production can not make up for a lack of spontaneity that permeates their tv show . 
the kids go through the motions , but you get the feeling that they arent really having fun doing so . 
and this makes it more difficult for the audience to enjoy their antics . 
brain candy is a bunch of skits tied together by the story of a pharmaceutical company that develops a new drug to cure depression . 
in typical sketch-comedy tradition , each actor plays several roles . 
doctor cooper ( kevin mcdonald ) and his team create the drug . 
then , under pressure from don roritor ( mark mckinney ) , founder and president of roritor pharmaceuticals , dr . cooper releases the drug into the marketplace . 
the ensuing distribution of the new happy pill throughout the populace drives the rest of the film . 
at about 90 minutes , brain candy still seems long . 
the best thing about sketch comedy--and the kids are no exception--is the ability to quickly deliver the laughs , then go on to another quick skit . 
but with the additional set-up necessary in telling a longer , coherent story , the laughs just dont come fast enough . 
strangely , the show is even more tame than it was when on cable tv . 
the movie makes several attempts at risqueness--mostly by pointing up the gayness of one of scott thompsons characters--but they seem almost forced ; as if they have to live up to a pg rating . 
one of the best bits , though , does make use of thompsons naked buttocks ; we see him charging into battle--going to have sex with some guys taking a shower . 
in the classic of this genre , monty python pulled off this delicate balancing act between plot advancement and punchline delivery for most of the holy grail . 
the kids , unfortunately , are not up to the task . 
there are some amusing moments , to be sure , but not enough to make the experience an enjoyable one . 

linda fiorentino disappeared off the radar after a deservedly heralded turn in the cable pic the last seduction , and her being cast as dogma's lead is nothing short of inexplicable . 
she's still in fine form as bethany , an abortion clinic worker who's lost her faith . 
one night , a visitor from heaven makes a fiery entrance in bethany's bedroom . 
he is metatron ( alan rickman ) , the voice of god , and he needs her help : she must stop two fallen angels from entering a new jersey church-the fate of the universe depends on it . 
god would do it him/herself , but he/she is . . . missing , having taken up human form somewhere on earth never to be heard from again . 
bethany is joined on her road trip to the garden state by the " prophets " jay ( jason mewes ) and silent bob ( kevin smith , doing double-duty ) , the slacker minstrels who have appeared in all of smith's films thus far . 
at some point , rock drops naked out of the sky as rufus , the undocumented ( and very black ) " thirteenth apostle " , and offers his assistance , as does divine stripper serendipity ( salma hayek ) . 
it's a wild ride . 
they're in pursuit of loki and bartleby ( damon and affleck , respectively-this is probably the sharpest either has ever been ) , who were banished from heaven to wisconsin and have discovered a dogmatic loophole that will enable their return . 
loki decides to wreak havoc along the way with the knowledge that his sins will be absolved at the pearly gates . 
at one point , he terrorizes a boardroom full of suits with an angry combination of words and bullets . 
it's a nasty , guiltily enjoyable little scene that asks , " how corrupt are you ? " . 
wings of desire this ain't . 
since debuting with clerks , smith has grown as a director , particularly in terms of working with actors . 
 ( chris rock is this film's only weak link-between jokes , he's wooden . ) 
his no-frills visual style hasn't changed much over the years , though ( dogma's widescreen compositions at least have blockbuster affectations ) , nor has his writing-his characters still sit around delivering one caustic , hilarious speech after another . 
dogma chips away at big religious issues-namely , the hypocrisy that accompanies any organized system of beliefs-eloquently and articulately , but a few of the monologues sound too much like blatant exposition . 
as well , the verbal introduction of each new person seems to take forever . 
any movie with this much weighty talk would have a hard time maintaining momentum ( hurlyburly , anyone ? ) , and eventually dogma's pacing goes slack . 
a long diatribe from bartleby late in the game , in which he laments the destiny of celestial beings , comes at a point when we've heard enough . 
because his change of heart ( bartleby is initially the good cop to loki's bad ) drives the climax , said rant is given a great deal of screen time . 
sure , affleck deserved a big moment ( damon steals their scenes together prior ) , but it ultimately makes the film and us feel bloated . 
like tarantino , smith was a video-age sponge who became a sample-mad indie filmmaker . 
dogma pays welcome homage to an eclectic batch of movies , including indiana jones and the last crusade , with silent bob doing his best harrison ford , and weird science-a shit demon attacks our heroes ! 
smith also has a kitchen sink brand of humour : his dexterous maneuvering between the satirical ( a cardinal played by george carlin attempts to mount a publicity campaign with the slogan " catholicism wow ! " ) and the scatalogical ensures that no lover of comedy will leave dogma feeling malnourished . 
i bust ( ed ? ) a gut on several occasions . 
proceedings also get off on the right foot with the opening with the funniest disclaimer ever . 
it's a disclaimer unlikely to put protestors at ease , for to read it , one actually has to see dogma . 
the prerelease ballyhoo is in the tradition of the last temptation of christ's , martin scorsese's 1988 adaptation of nikos kazantzakis' controversial novel , in that it is not directly linked to the picture's content but to rumours and heresy . 
there's a famous anecdote about fletch director michael ritchie inviting picketers of the last temptation of christ into a screening on his dime , just so they could know for certain what they were rallying against . 
 ( not one of them had watched it . ) 
every single person refused . 
smith and scorsese have a lot in common , and so do the two films in question , because both smith's bethany and scorsese's jesus are hollow shells without their faith . 
in fact , dogma's denouement ( which follows a thrilling showdown that's worth the wait ) is a catholic love-in , a veritable recruitment poster . 
 ( i felt sentimental about a religion i don't belong to . 
now that's powerful filmmaking . ) smith is nothing if not sincere about his own devotion to god , and that spirituality shines through . 
it's enough to make me forgive dogma for its editorial sins . 
my religion is movies . 
when the catholic league beats on dogma for imaginary crimes against a doctrine , in a roundabout way they're attacking what i live for : freedom of expression through celluloid . 
i therefore feel that , although i'm no bible-thumper , i'm at least as qualified to criticize dogma as william donohue and his followers . 

scream 2 , like its predecessor , is a genre-crossing film . 
it is about 50% horror film and 50% murder mystery . 
the mix worked very well last time and it continues to entertain this time . 
scream was also known for its self-referential tone . 
many inside jokes were made in reference to horror movies and wes craven . 
again , scream 2 follows suit with characters saying such things as " sequels suck " and " the entire horror genre was destroyed by sequels . " 
scream 2's story is very similar to it's predecessor's . 
sidney ( neve campbell ) , having survived the killing spree in scream , is now in college . 
gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a book about the murders and that book is now being released as a feature film , called stab ( which for all practical purposes is the real-world movie scream ) . 
at the premiere of stab , two students from sidney's college are stabbed to death , and a new story begins . 
the press descends on sidney and her college to get the scoop on this sequel killer . 
they want to know all about the links between stab , sidney , and the recent murders . 
the most complex self-reference i saw ( this should be an olympic event ) was the scene where gale weathers was asking questions at a press conference . 
the rest of the press was watching and videotaping weathers . 
the other survivors from scream were watching and videotaping the press . 
the audience was watching the whole , filmed scene . 
 ( whew . ) 
the movie is packed with layers and self-references that make it a pleasure to watch . 
even better would be to watch a double feature of scream and scream 2 . that's not to say that these references necessarily make scream 2 a deep , or even a good movie . 
the just add to the fun of watching it . 
i recommend it for other reasons as well . 
what i liked best about the horror aspect of the movie is that the monster is not supernatural . 
no werewolf or ghost or psycho with superhuman strength is responsible . 
it is a person in a mask and a robe , his only advantage the fear he strikes into his victims . 
no extraordinary leap of faith is needed to believe in the killer . 
the down side is that if you are frightened by horror movies , you have less grounds to say " it's just a movie . " 
the whodunit aspect of the movie is not that great by itself - gale weathers and deputy dewey ( david arquette , also from the original ) track down a killer . 
they are likeable , but not outstanding . 
but in combination with the horror aspect , the whodunit is a perfect counterpoint . 
it was exactly a year ago today that i wrote the review for scream . 
the internet movie database says that scream 3 is in the works , so i wonder if i'll be doing the same thing on january 1 , 1999 . 
if craven and screenwriter kevin williamson are able to keep the quality high , i'll be happy to mark my calendar . 

available for rental - october 12 , 1999 
10 things i hate about you is an update of the classic play , the taming of the shrew . 
that said , drop any pre-conceived notions of what shakespeare's work is supposed to be like and welcome yourself to padua high school , home of a student counselor ( allison janney ) who obsesses over the male penis ; a slightly too hip and racist african-american english teacher ( daryl mitchell ) ; a new kid named cameron ( joseph gordon-levitt ) ; a model named joey ( andrew keegan ) , the subject of cameron and joey's crushes ; bianca ( larisa oleynik ) ; and bianca's sister - the shrew ( julia stiles in a marvelous performance ) - whose name is katarina , kat for short . 
with movies about high schools similar to these running through projectors like water down the nile , it would be quite easy to write off 10 things i hate about you as just another doltish comedic-romance . 
yet , you must realize that the story is timeless , and a few hundred years later it is equally as witty and comical as when elizabeth gleefully looked on , groundlings below and stuffed brassieres on stage . 
the first reminder of the original scribe can be found in katarina and bianca's last name : stratford . 
their family is run by walter stratford ( pretty woman's larry miller ) , a doctor who is all too familiar with teenage pregnancy and guards his children accordingly . 
in what he thinks to be a moment of ironic humor , the family " no dating " policy is amended to " bianca can date . . . when 
[katarina] does . " 
with prom just ahead , bianca's fate is grim ; unless , of course , she can tame the shrew . 
don't think this mission to be a simple one , as bianca kindly points out , her sister " . . . is a particularly hideous breed of loser . " 
getting katarina to date is complex and oftentimes confusing . 
when cameron , who likes bianca , learns of her father's new rule , he is quick to consult a friend for advice . 
the scheme they dream up is to fully exploit " someone with money . " 
in this case , that is joey - the other guy with a crush on bianca . 
cameron's friend , a loser by teenage verdict , convinces joey to pay someone who has enough guts to take the shrew out . 
the solution lies no farther away than the second blatant reminder of the master scribe : patrick verona ( heath ledger ) . 
this verona is far from fair ; rumor has it that he previously laid his scene in prison . 
moreover , katarina openly opined to the aforementioned english teacher that " hemingway was an alcoholic who hung around picasso , hoping to nail his leftovers . " 
the laws of high school cinema inexorably turn patrick and katarina into romeo and juliet . 
providing a constant reminder of the fact that this isn't exactly what shakespeare had in mind are the elements obligatory to a high school comedy : a party polluted with liquor , a best friend's betrayal , and prom . 
it is the latter that has become infamous for closing films like drive me crazy , american pie , never been kissed , carrie , she's all that , and can't hardly wait . 
yet surely even these practices have roots in shakespeare ; falstaff was a drunk , romeo and juliet met at a party , and caesar learned about loyalty the hard way . 

the word 'rest' in the title should be stressed since this is a movie that lacks any action scenes at all . 
what does takes place is more based on character development . 
the film starts right in the middle of the lives of four people : nick , beth , carol and sid . 
what they have done earlier is for the most part only hinted at . 
nick and beth have a relationship and have decided to move from enfield , arizona to butte , montana . 
 ( and i who thought that butte was pronounced slightly different . . . ) 
carol is nick's ex-girlfriend and beth's best friend , sid is a joint-smoking painter that comes to repaint their house before the new tenants move in . 
obviously based on a stage play , the problem with the movie is that there's a lot of things left out . 
it's not obvious that nick and beth are in love with each other , the reason why nick was fired from his job isn't mentioned . 
and why nick suddenly decide to go visit his parents remain a mystery , when he hasn't seen them for many years . 
set in a small ( fictional ? ) 
town in arizona was a good move , since this makes the film focus on the four characters and not on their surroundings . 
the name of the city is not important , this could take place anywhere with four young people in a house discussing life and the future . 
particularly impressive is bridget fonda as beth who end up in bed with sid when her fiance nick leaves her . 
not an actress that i have found interesting earlier or seen many pictures with , but i'll keep an eye on her in the future . 
interesting trivia : this was rated r in the us but rated 'barntill ? ten' in sweden wich means that anyone at any age can see it . 

there's something about ben stiller that makes him a popular choice among casting directors these days . 
stiller currently has three projects in circulation , and what other actor can lay claim to that ? 
he's in " there's something about mary , " which i * still * haven't seen . 
and he's in the acerbic " your friends & neighbors , " playing a talkative , sexually-frustrated drama coach called jerri . 
now there's " permanent midnight , " in which stiller plays another jerry , this one a heroin-addicted television writer , last name stahl . 
there's also something about this industry that pushes bankable stars like stiller into doing drug-addiction pictures the minute they've proved themselves commercially . 
ewan mcgregor springs to mind who , after successful turns in " emma " and " brassed off , " received greater respect and admiration for his mind-blowing realization as renton in danny boyle's transatlantic junk-fest , " trainspotting . " 
the philosophy appears to be a simple one : if you want 'em to be taken seriously , make 'em do drugs . 
 " permanent midnight " is based on the true life experiences of jerry stahl , a successful hollywood writer who , in the mid-eighties , had a $5 , 000-a-week job churning out plotlines for disposable tv sitcoms and a $6 , 000-a-week heroin habit . 
a habit , in stahl's own words , " the size of utah . " 
as stahl , stiller contributes a commanding performance . 
unlike " trainspotting , " which was successful in having it both ways by chronicling both the highs and the lows of heroin abuse , " permanent midnight " instead focuses on the concept of drug addiction as maintenance . 
one of the earliest observations in the film is a casual reference to " naked lunch " author william s . burroughs who , when asked why he shoots up first thing in the morning responds , " so i can shave . " 
stahl rarely appears to be puncturing veins for the thrill of it all in " permanent midnight " ; it's so he can talk to his mother on the phone , show up for work on time , even pay his bills . 
while the film itself occasionally wobbles around along with stahl , the writing ( adapted from stahl's autobiography by director david veloz ) is controlled and pointed . 
 " permanent midnight " shows how stahl moved from new york to l . a . to--again in the author's words-- " escape the drug scene " ( yeah , right ) ; why he entered into a convenient marriage with a british tv exec ( elizabeth hurley , so impossibly polite you'd swear her single profanity was dubbed ) ; and that he conceived a child in between his random hirings and firings . 
stahl narrates all this in a motel bedroom to a sympathetic lover called kitty ( norristown's own maria bello ) with whom he spent some rehab time . 
janeane garofalo is wasted--and miscast--as a heavily-bespectacled hollywood talent agent who fails to get her hooks into the doped-up wordsmith , and that's stahl himself playing a jaded clinic counselor . 
stiller , unshaven ( burroughs take note ) and with lots of mascara around the eyes , has stahl stumble through the film looking like a train wreck but , to his credit , never once pushes his pill-popping , needle-jabbing performance over the top . 
the ubiquitous stiller is the reason to see " permanent midnight " ; a dark , comic , and strangely absorbing study of assisted living . 

before you read my review , you gotta know that i love woody allen . 
this is a very important note because allen's films are generally an acquired taste and definitely not for everyone . 
i know folks who believe him to be a complete genius , while others see him as a dirty ol' schnook who keeps making the same movie over and over again . 
i love most of his films , but will admit to having been quite disappointed by his recent crop during the 90s . 
in fact , why he felt the need to make 10 movies in those 10 years is beyond me ! 
if you look at the quality of those films , you'll hear what i'm saying . 
the only two films of his that i really liked during that time were bullets over broadway and husbands and wives . 
in fact , i secretly hoped that he would take some " time off " at the turn of the millennium , just to re-energize or something , but it doesn't appear as though he has any intention of doing that . 
so here i am again , reviewing yet another woody allen movie and hoping that it brings back the woody from the days of old . 
plot : the year is 1940 and woody allen is a top-notch insurance investigator . 
his methods are very old-fashioned and apparently out of date . 
a new employee ( hunt ) has just been hired to streamline the operations for greater efficiency . 
the two do not like each other . 
one night , they are both put under a hypnotic trance by a magician , and unbeknownst to them , placed under his control . 
soon thereafter , jewels are stolen , words of love are exchanged and everyone is looking for an answer . 
critique : a wonderful recreation of the 1940s style movies , with the fast-talking witty banter between co-workers , a catchy jazz score moving things along , film noirish elements such as the veronica lake-type sexpot , one-liners galore and a fluffy , if inconsequential plotline . 
on the downside , the film actually starts off pretty slowly , with the first hour tossing only a few guffaws out there , but never really generating any kind of steady flow or energy . 
the sets , on the other hand , were amazing , the production design and costumes were perfect , and the casting ideal , so i kept hoping that the film would pick up and not turn into yet another mediocre outing for the man . 
but it wasn't not long before i was fully engaged by the characters , entertained by the many zingers delivered back-and-forth between allen and hunt , and actually interested in the resolution of the flick . 
i also appreciated how allen played the fine line between homage to the films of old , parody and actual reinvention ( note theron's entire female persona that is drenched in film noir- very cool ) . 
of course , films like this ( with little or no real tension in the plot ) need solid actors to keep you interested in the quick-fire dialogue , and once again , allen does a great job in playing his character , who for once , isn't his typical new york jewish neurotic cheating insecure husband dude . 
he actually plays a " macho " guy here and handles it pretty well , especially the scenes in which he's hypnotized . 
but the bigger surprise for me in this film was helen hunt , an actress who i was openly " sick of seeing " in movies late last year ( sorry babe , you were just in too many at the same time ! ) . 
anyway , she's really great in this film as the headstrong woman looking to a new era of equality amongst men , and doesn't miss a beat of allen's fast-paced dialogue . 
i didn't care much for her running joke about him " dying " whenever he left a room , but overall she was really good and i especially liked the way that her sweaters clung to her breasts as they did . . . yum , 
yum ! 
harumph , but i digress . 
so let's recap . 
a great looking picture with a nice jazzy score , some funny one-liners , especially in the second half , a decent plotline , although you shouldn't expect a real mystery or anything , and some solid acting all around . 
i can't say that this is even remotely close to any of allen's best work , but i certainly believe it to be a step in the right direction , especially after the dinky decade of films that he just went through . 
it's probably better geared towards allen fans more than anyone else , but i would still recommend this film to anyone looking for a cute , " old-school " kind of vibe , with chemistry between the leads , zippy dialogue and a satisfying conclusion . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : annie hall ( 10/10 ) - celebrity ( 5/10 ) - everyone says i love you ( 5/10 ) - husbands and wives ( 9/10 ) - mighty aphrodite ( 5/10 ) - small time crooks ( 7/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 ) 

the most popular trend of the last couple of years has been the twist ending . 
watching one of these movies , everything seems to make sense until suddenly you are blown away by an unexpected surprise . 
when the film ends , there is a moment of confusion , then recollection , then some more confusion , then possibly a second viewing for clarification . 
this is a description of an ideal twist that perfects everything it sets out to do and more . 
good surprises make movies fun to watch . 
then there are the bad twists . 
you either know what is going to happen ten minutes into the movie ( i'm talking about you reindeer games ) or you did not guess the ending because it is so outrageously stupid . 
screwed perfectly suits the latter description . 
what starts out as a dumb guilty pleasure which should be fun to mock with a group of friends ends with a complex finale with way too much going on . 
by the writers of man on the moon and the people vs . 
larry flynt , scott alexander and larry karaszewski leave milos forman behind and take a stab at film directing . 
whoops . 
screwed is an inane christmas carol gone berserk with few genuine laughs and many acting embarrassments . 
norm macdonald stars as willard filmore , a hard working chauffeur who just wants a little respect from his rich , old , insidious boss , miss crock ( elaine stritch ) . 
when he overhears her plans to fire him on christmas day , willard is convinced by his best friend rusty ( dave chapelle ) to kidnap crock's beloved dog and hold it for a ransom of one million dollars . 
too excited to pay any attention , the hapless losers' plan goes awry when the dog escapes and returns home . 
now crock thinks willard has been kidnapped and the two friends , realizing they can make even more money , decide to stage the fake kidnapping . 
of course , everything that could go wrong does . 
the first forty-five minutes of screwed is harmless entertainment - a guilty pleasure that should be enjoyably bad . 
but the convoluted script eventually builds into a disaster that is impossible to bear . 
the more idiotic these characters get , the more reckless the script becomes . 
at one point , i wanted to get out of my seat and yell at these characters : " no , you idiot ! " 
i'm not just talking about willard and rusty , who were extremely annoying , i'm also talking about the cops in this film . 
a monkey could have solved this case within an hour but these guys ( headed by murder one's daniel benzali ) were just too clueless to forgive . 
they give real cops bad names . 
also poor danny devito apparently does not know how to turn down a role these days . 
looking almost identical to his penguin in batman : returns , every time he appeared on the screen i had to shake my head in disbelief . 
he just didn't belong in this movie . 
macdonald and chapelle are veterans at these kinds of movies but devito made the film much worse than it already was , gross out humor is certainly not his forte . 
if you're a fan of norm macdonald's other chaotic comedy , dirty work , you might actually love this near-sequel . 
otherwise , don't get screwed out of your hard-earned money . 

with the opening scene of a young couple in a van pulling up , loading their guns , kissing each other and uttering what sounds like " rock and roll ! " 
 ( actually , it's " lock and load " ) , you can't help thinking tarantino . 
and of course with its storyline of a crazy girl and boy in love who turn to violent bank robbery , the film unapologetically takes its place alongside all those other films from bonnie & clyde to natural born killers . 
but if most of those movies have their roots in pulp fiction , exploring a modern myth of the doomed rebels on the run , normal life takes a much more psychologically realistic look at the phenomenon . 
 " inspired by true events " -- we've heard that one before , and yet in no other tale of violent couples has it seemed so solidly demonstrated . . . 
or so strangely poignant . 
for this is a story of real people whose lives take on a steadily unreal quality , who in their search for a normal life find themselves increasingly unhinged . 
beginning with their final arrest , the film goes back to trace the relationship between chris ( luke perry ) , a policeman , and pam ( ashley judd ) , a factory worker . 
they fall in love and marry , but pam's increasingly erratic behaviour ( going on spending sprees , slashing herself with a knife after an argument ) begin to trouble the solid and stable chris . 
when chris gets sacked , they find themselves heavily in debt and near breaking up . 
then , chris begins to rob banks . . . 
luke perry accomplishes the not-inconsiderable feat of making us nearly forget that he was ever in beverly hills 90210 or buffy the vampire slayer . 
moustached , with a tough paternal look and yet a voice and eyes that suggest sadness verging on exasperation , he is perfectly cast as the long-suffering husband . 
 ( it's another of john mcnaughton's coups of casting-against-type , after transforming robert de niro into nerd and bill murray into gangster in mad dog and glory ) . 
but it is the character of pam who commands centrestage , and ashley judd rises to the challenge with great alternating currents of ferocity and tenderness , making pam into a fascinating yet often infuriating person . 
if the performance falls short of greatness , however , it is perhaps because the role of the mad woman has been done so often before it is virtually a staple of cinema , whether it's in betty blue , tom & viv or georgia . 
as in those movies , there's the danger that the performance seems mannered , a collection of screwy tics and tantrums designed for the oscar presentation piece . 
judd doesn't entirely avoid this pitfall , but pam's 'craziness' is best and most movingly presented in counterpoint to the more 'normal' chris . 
when pam reacts to her father-in-law's death by showing up at the funeral in rollerblades and blaring headphones , chris' face is the picture of pained restraint . 
of course , it's the question of what is 'normal' that is asked in normal life . 
mcnaughton constantly offers up the ironies of the aspirations for the average domestic life and its kinship with insanity . 
it is the rational chris that loves guns ( " shooting is about precision , control " ) and the 'crazy' pam that loves astronomy and yearns for a dog ( who is then called chaos -- " chaos and you and me . . . 
we're a real family " , she notes wryly ) . 
it is chris' methodical mind and his knowledge of police procedure that allows him to be such a successful bank robber ( his well-planned disguise as a bearded , roaring man of terror is another piece of method in madness ) . 
in the carpark where he sets out for his first robbery , a huge sign on a shopping mall stands out in the background : " buy-more " -- the perfectly respectable consumption-crazy american dream that has driven pam to her extravagant purchases , and both of them into desperate situations . 
it's not a perfect film . 
some of the dialogue is a touch too banal ( perhaps intentionally ? ) . 
the use of the punk hardcore soundtrack in pam's crazed scenes comes rather too close to making emotional disturbance seem glamourous and sexy an image which only detracts from the rest of the film . 
indeed , as in mcnaughton's seminal film henry : portrait of a serial killer , it is the avoidance of glamour or sensationalism , the denial of some of the standard thrills of the outlaw film genre , that gives this determinedly unflashy , moving film its great strengths . 
mcnaughton has filmed this story with a quiet , coolly 'realistic' method that works far better than any nbk theatrics at unsettling the viewer . 
the suburbs , with their miles of white-fenced houses and identikit malls , take on a sense of claustrophobic blankness . 
in its very different way , this makes for as haunting a backdrop as the wide open spaces in terence malick's badlands . 
while pam shares the yearnings of malick's heroes to escape from ordinary life , chris takes up crime precisely so that they can lead a 'normal life' - their little house on the suburbs is financed by his violent robberies . 
but these are dreams defined by , constrained by , and even doomed by , the limitations of the 'normal' , conventional world . 
pam's final scene takes place at the edge of the suburbs , where wild bushes grow -- symbolically the frontier , the outer limits of her society , but also quite literally the end of the road , where there is nowhere left to go but to the final tragic denouement . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 

synopsis : easily-angered , chainsmoking architect david encounters his homicidal first wife diedre five years after their divorce . 
diedre easily cons david's not-so-bright new wife molly into believing she's a child psychologist so that she can influence molly and david's quick-tempered son , michael . 
diedre , at the same time , murders a bunch of people . 
comments : the ex is a very bad movie . 
i haven't seen a turkey of this magnitude in quite a while . 
i kept vacillating , however , between giving the ex one star for its sheer awfulness and three stars for its campy humor ( ultimately , i decided to split the difference and give it two stars ) . 
as summarized briefly in the synopsis , this is yet another spurned-psycho-lover-gets-her-revenge type movie . 
i'm not sure how many films have been produced since fatal attraction which use this tired storyline , but it seems like 10 , 000 , 000 , 000 . 
the ex , however , though following many of the standard cliches of this thriller subgenre , differs slightly from the norm in that , at least , it doesn't take itself too seriously like so many other duds do ( malicious and stalked are two examples which come to mind ) . 
those involved in the movie realize they're in a turkey , apparently , and turn in hammy performances which compliment the ludicrous dialogue contained within the script . 
the ex's storyline , as i said , incorporates many cliches predominant in films of its nature ; however , the plot is so overwrought and unbelievable that , after a while , the viewer must accept that logic does not operate in the realm of the movie . 
diedre , david's first wife , kills and kills and kills , for example , without ever having to worry about police investigations and the like ( it's not as though she's bright enough not to leave fingerprints at the scene of the crime ) . 
david and his new wife molly have an incredibly difficult time understanding why michael , their son , has emotional problems , specifically his inability to control his anger . 
though david smokes like tomorrow will never come and blows up at people every other minute in the movie , the connection between him and his son is not made . 
molly is easily swayed by diedre into believing she's a child psychologist and allows the demented woman to spend time with her son . 
time and time again , things do not add up in this movie . 
if a viewer can't accept this fact , then he will definately not like the ex . 
if , on the other hand , he can appreciate the movie for its campiness , then he'll probably like it much better . 
i don't mean to necessarily suggest , however , that the ex is a memorable exercise in camp . 
even when viewed from an it's-so-bad-it's-good angle , this movie isn't all that successful . 
the ex does have its moments , though , almost all of which involve yancy butler ( the psychotic diedre ) and nick mancuso ( david ) . 
these two actors turn in decidedly hammy performances which , oftentimes , elicit chuckles from the audience . 
the truly awful lines written for them help this humor along . 
butler gets the larger portion of bad dialogue ; every time her character kills someone , she has a punchline that's unbelievably inane . 
when she murders a tenant of an apartment she wishes to use to spy on david , for example , diedre whacks the elderly lady with a crowbar and states " i'm so sorry , your lease is terminated . " 
or how about when diedre takes out her therapist in another ridiculous scene ? 
 ( diedre's therapist wishes to have her recommitted , so she decides to visit diedre , alone , in her new apartment -- never realizing , of course , that it's not her's . 
therapists typically are catatonically brain-dead in these movies ) . 
having successfully snuffed the woman out , diedre looks at the body and says : " what was it that you always said to me at the end of each session , dr . jones ? 
oh , that's right . 
'i'm sorry , but your time is up ! ' " 
this is what passes for humor in the film . 
the audience doesn't necessarily laugh but groan ( the type of groan that suggests the audience can't believe they're watching this crap -- although watching it they are ) . 
nick mancuso's chainsmoking , nervous-wreck character does not have the cheesy lines that butler's character delivers , but his ridiculously overdone performance provides for some better comic relief . 
in between drags off his cigarette , for instance , in one of the movie's best scenes , david tries to explain to his lawyer what a creep his ex-wife is . 
in exaggerated exasperation , he nearly shouts " the woman is a cuckoo-bird ! " 
 ( trust me , it is funny in context . ) 
and so , the movie continues until its painfully obvious conclusion . 
i won't reveal the ending specifically ( though anyone remotely familiar with thrillers of this type could probably guess the ending just from this film review ) , but i will say that the ex has one of the biggest fire hazards appearing recently in film . 
molly and david own a cabin that becomes engulfed by flames in approximately three seconds ! 
molly , at one point in the film , not-so-brilliantly observes , after discovering diedre has moved into an apartment across from her family's to spy upon them , that " she's crazy . " 
you'd be pretty crazy too if you'd rented this turkey . 
i'd avoid it unless it's on tv and you come across it . 
if you do , you may want to watch it , groan at the bad punchlines and stupid plot , and feel good that you didn't spend money renting it . 

when i was growing up in 1970s , boys in my school used to divide into two groups , based on their action movies preferences . 
the first one , myself included , liked movies that featured spectacular car chases , lots of machinegun fire and huge explosions . 
the latter one preferred hong kong martial arts flicks , probably because they could ( or , to be more precise , thought they could ) imitate its stunts in the real life . 
decades later , while refining my own cinematic taste , i began to appreciate and actually like those movies , probably because of overexposure to shoot-em-up idiocy of 1980s ramboids . 
yes , most of the kung fu and other " martial arts " flicks were cheap , they had predictable and formulaic plot , and asked very little of production values aside from martial arts skills . 
but , in the same time , those movies had their own rules and in the hands of capable director could become a terrific guilty pleasure and source of relaxation . 
the best of those movies , one that passed the test of time and managed to keep its own cult status after quarter of century was enter the dragon . 
made in 1973 in a joint hong kong - hollywood venture , it was intended to bring bruce lee's skills and kung fu philosophy to the western audience . 
it succeeded , but it is still debatable whether by its own merit or by the unfortunate and mysterious death of bruce lee that immortalised the myth about that actor . 
lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert . 
he is approached by interpol official who asks him to join tri-annual martial arts tournament that is held on a remote island , owned and controlled by han , renegade shaolin monk . 
interpol suspects that the martial arts business is just cover for narcotics , gun-running and prostitution operations and lee must find the evidence necessary for authorities to intervene . 
lee accepts the mission because of personal reasons - o'harra , han's brutal bodyguard was responsible for the tragic death of lee's sister years ago . 
the island is also destination of two colourful martial arts experts from us - williams ( played by jim kelly ) is black activist running from the racist police , and his friend roper wants to make money in order to pay gambling debts . 
the plot of enter the dragon was in many ways influenced by james bond ( the 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements in the man with the golden gun two years later ) . 
the main hero was faced against a power-hungry megalomaniac on a remote island , alone against whole army of bad guys . 
on the other hand , lee was more believable hero than bond ; deprived of guns and super-tech gadgets , he had to rely only on his personal skills in order to survive . 
in the same time , the plot , although extremely thin , allowed him even some internal battles - between the natural instinct to avenge his sister and his own anti-violent philosophy . 
the latter provided some opportunities to evaluate lee's acting skills and some new elements to his impressive screen presence . 
although two other main actors - john saxon being the obligatory good white guy and jim kelly being the obligatory black good guy - were intended to share top spot with lee , they served as nothing more than a comic relief . 
it is a real shame to see kelly , definitely the worse actor than saxon , to steal the scenes from him only because his lines , being the worst possible blaxploitation cliches , sound so damn over the top . 
other actors , not including shih kien who turns han into typical , although not very convincing bondian villain , are nothing more than fist fodder for bruce lee ( among them is young jackie chan ) . 
fighting scenes are still impressive today as they were 25 years ago , although they mostly lack gore associated with that genre . 
in many way they are also more realistic ( they were personally staged by lee himself ) , demanding only a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent . 
i'm not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan , but comparing those scenes with typical scenes today i simply can't avoid to appreciate the difference from today's movie fights when masses of bloody pulp manage to get up from the floor and win in the end . 
so , despite all the obvious flaws that preclude this movie of being top 100 of all times , enter the dragon is a incredibly entertaining piece of cinema and the martial arts flick that can be enjoyed even by those who don't like that particular genre . 

 " alcohol and drugs = bad . 
not alcohol and drugs = good . 
got it ? " 
just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . . 
'28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings . 
gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol . 
for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end . 
this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself . 
her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes . 
such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house . 
this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab . 
here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment . 
most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party . 
the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times . 
it is a classic cautionary tale . 
an echo . 
a big , fat and expensive clich ? . 
a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' . 
director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review . 
for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy . 
jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness . 
and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean . 
isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ? 
even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 . 
it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously . 
but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance . 
that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story . 
 " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century . 
and that's how simple it is ! 
in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' . 
as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else . 
for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' . 
she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop . 
dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters . 
although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect . 
there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor . 
the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better . 
'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues . 
so what's the point ? 
in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level . 
if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' . 
under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost . 

whew . this film oozes energy , the kind of breakneck , no- holds-barred , in-your-face risk-taking filmmaking that is seldom seen on screen these days . 
like the marginal , motley bunch of post-apocalyptic youths director danny boyle tries to depict , trainspotting veers on the edge of utter mayhem but ultimately retains its footing and control . 
the result : a movie that is a delightful example of how the medium is the message . 
the message : a bunch of losers with loser names , mark renton ( ewan mcgregor ) , spud ( ewan bremner ) , sick boy ( jonny lee miller ) , tommy ( kevin mckidd ) , and begbie ( robert carlyle ) . 
bored , aimless and restless , their routine consists of getting drunk at the local pub , grooving to techno or glam-rock at the local disco and getting shots up the arm at the local den and procuring cash through a variety of methods , some ingenious , others plainly dumb and desperate . 
not part of the daily dose if obtained , sex is a bonus . 
you can find these characters as they are , foul-mouthed , dirty , pathetic , ugly perhaps but definitely interesting , in irvin welsh's cult novel of the same name . 
what makes the film a completely different experience is how director boyle uses every tool at his disposal to make the filmic medium synchronous with the message . 
one of the first things you'll notice is how the camera seems to dart around restlessly . 
it'll truck into a character's pimple , just as soon as it will dolly out to an establishing shot . 
distracted and curious , it'll maintain a character's eye-level or drop right to the ground to show the doped-out-eye-view . 
you'll even find characters peering into the camera , their faces smeared across the wide-angle lens . 
this film camera is just another one of the guys . 
tiptoeing that indistinguishable line between fantasy and reality , boyle employs a healthy dose of surrealism to get the message across . 
bored kids daydream and bored kids deprived of a heroin fix have nightmares . 
i don't want to give too much away , but if you cross chuckie from child's play with some of the wacky fantasies in heavenly creatures , you might have an idea just how fun or pants-wetting scary the alternate state of consciouness can be . 
that said , this film has a good share of drugs - consumed , vomitted , defecated , pissed off , exchanged , bought , sold , injected , smuggled , enjoyed and regretted . 
if that isn't your cup of tea , nobody forced you to see the film . 
stay at home and rent up close and personal . 
and what's a buzz without tunes . 
from pulp to iggy pop ( yes , he's still alive ) , the aural landscape is as engaging as the visual energy permeating the film . 
good and bad vibrations tangle like the conflicting desires and values of the message . 
every once in a while , a film comes along with the kind of energetic filmmaking that matches the intensity of its characters it hopes to depict . 
trainspotting is that shooting star that burns across a sky littered with static constellations . 
dom is a part-time filmmaker who graduated from northwestern university's radio/tv/film programme not too long ago . 
he has laboured on various music videos and short films in and around campus and chicago . 
nowhere town , a 26min short film that he shot , co-directed and co-produced recently scooped up the grand jury prize at the charleston international film festival for best student production . 
he is currently finishing a couple of small projects . 
with his minute amounts of leisure time , dom does nell impersonations . 

synopsis : nice girl susanne has sex with her boyfriend daniel in his car , visits daniel's rich family during thanksgiving at their mansion in the middle of nowhere , and has sex with daniel again in the basement . 
susanne and daniel must then decide where to hide from evil art thieves who shoot everyone else in the mansion to steal paintings . 
brace yourself for one of those painfully obvious " surprise endings . " 
comments : thanksgiving . 
for most , it's a time to be with your loved ones and enjoy a good , home-cooked meal . 
for the makers of body count , however , thanksgiving is a time for multiple murders , violence , profanity , family dysfunction , and sex . 
boy , do i feel all the more better having sat through this crap . 
alyssa milano , the former child star of who's the boss ? , matures to made-for-video sludge like this movie . 
someone somewhere thought it'd be a great idea to pair her with rapper ice-t , who has since guest-starred in the made-for-the-sci-fi-channel series welcome to paradox . 
this isn't exactly a winning combination . 
outside of permanently ruining a holiday for me , what else may be said for this turkey ? 
well , it teaches us that beautiful , attractive women who look strikingly like alyssa milano fall in love with nerds who drive down long winding roads with their eyes closed and complain about being english teachers . 
it presents us with a heartwarming thanksgiving dinner attended by alcoholic , stuck-up rich white people waited on by black servants . 
it shows us that old guys , try not to laugh , sit around and talk about " the appeal of postmodernism " during their free time . 
and , it proves that you can have sex in your parents' basement when they have a dozen or so guests over , and no one will notice . 
before i go any further , if any young male reading this has hopes of seeing alyssa naked , forget it . 
the filmmakers cleverly shoot the simulated sex scenes in a manner that makes sure you don't see any of milano's attributes . 
they do , however , inexplicably throw in a scene where ice-t whistles " jingle bells " after killing people , for whatever that's worth . 
this film was originally titled below utopia . 
perhaps they should have renamed it hell . 
avoid this clunker . 

'contact' shows why jodie foster is one of our best actresses . 
see contact with your family . 
it is a movie for all ages . 
--a review by stuart cracraft 
contact starring : jodie foster , matthew mcconaughey , john hurt director : robert zemeckis star 
after a predictable mit phillip morrison powers-of-10 zoom-out start ( which can be surprising to those not familiar with prof . morrison's work ) , contact picks up steam , gradually , building , by-the-end , an irresistable juggernaut and a very good movie that does not as is so often the case fall out-of-balance in terms of too much pandering to the technological " geek " side . 
by the end , the audience is left with what good science fiction is supposed to do : evoke a sense of wonder about the universe and evoke questions in your mind about what's out there . 
this movie does not let technology overshadow characterization and in this sense it is unusual amongst high-tech movies . 
however , except for jodie foster ( elie arroway ) and john hurt ( s . r . 
hadden ) , who are both actors of exceptional caliber , the supporting cast are not especially impressive . 
hurt certainly has had better roles ( stephen ward in scandal ) . 
this one , as the multi-billionare hadden , does not do his acting skills justice . 
this is clearly a foster movie by one of the great hollywood lights of our generation . 
foster's radiance has never been more strong than in the scene where she finally meets the vegans on their terms . 
early scenes take a long , long time to build up to this . 
the movie's pacing is very good and subtle . 
the panoramas of the radio dishes at arecibo and ceti in new mexico and puerto rico are beautiful . 
the politics of foster's character attempting to obtain funding for research at these places are trite and predictable however . 
one of the most entertaining , but very short scenes , is when foster is confronted by rob lowe , during a cabinet-level presidential meeting to discuss the alien invitation . 
there were real sparks in this scene between foster and lowe and it would behoove them to consider other vehicles in which this dynamism could be explored . 
it is the only scene in the movie in which there were tremendous dynamics between two characters . 
everything else was very one-sided ( e . g . 
foster ) . 
lowe can stand up to foster and it showed in that scene at the cabinet table . 
the core scene of the movie is set on a surrealistic beach on a far-away world in the starsystem of vega . 
it feels a lot like science fiction writer john varley's scenes in his book steel beach , where the female protagonists encounters an immensely superior intelligence , in one case a computer manufactured by mankind itself , and in foster's case , an illusion drawn from her memory . 
in another sense , this immensely moving scene evokes gene roddenberry's star trek pilot the cage , later the menagerie , when jeffrey hunter and susan oliver have their memories manipulated to create new worlds in which they live and encounter aliens . 
the concept is not new , by any sense , in the world of science fiction . 
but the beach scene , which is the centerpiece of the film , as is the whole film , is driven by foster . 
freed from her needs to direct by director zemecki , foster is able to let it all hang out in the characterization and the lead she provides to her supporting cast . 
as the movie gains speed , foster's acting intensifies and the audience really does experience it with her . 
it is certainly oscar-caliber acting , unquestionably . 
the supporting cast does well and zemeckis throws in some humor with some president clinton cameos , cleverly manipulated , george stephanopolus-style , to seem very forrest gump . 
in fact , zemeckis et . 
al . 
got in trouble for the usage of some of the footage seen in the movie , vis a vis clinton . 
but the audience i attended this movie with just had some good chuckles at clinton's walk-ons . 
the much-discussed tension between science and religion in this movie is not particularly insightful to those who have already gone through this course though it is helpful to those in the audience who have not . 
also , the near-final scene , in a senate judiciary hearing room is disappointing . 
contact is a fitting memorial to the memory of carl sagan , science popularizer , and sometime pedantic gadfly of the halls of academe . 
perhaps now , sagan can be said to be with his dragons of eden . 

meet joe black ( reviewed on nov . 27/98 ) 
starring brad pitt , anthony hopkins , claire forlani 
in " meet joe black " , brad pitt plays death . 
that's all that really needs to be said , but nevertheless , i will provide the three of you that have seemingly been living in a cave with a plot description . 
death decides to take a holiday , what with all the rigors of soul-collecting and all , and forces anthony hopkins into showing him what it's like to be human . 
death assumes the body of brad pitt , and from there , much trouble ensues . 
for one thing , death-as-pitt falls in love with hopkins daughter , played by claire forlani . 
obviously this enrages hopkins , because really , what can death offer ? 
besides eternal damnation , of course . 
there is also a sub-plot about forlani's ex-boyfriend ( she dumps him for pitt ) trying to take over hopkins company . 
 " meet joe black " runs just under three hours . 
i've always thought that such obscene running times should be limited to historical epics . 
 " meet joe black " is neither historical nor is it an epic , though i get the feeling martin brest ( the director ) desperately wants it to be . 
every single scene in the movie goes on about 3-4 minutes too long . 
and the ending takes about 20 minutes longer than it really should . 
a severe editing job could have made this movie excellent , instead of just good , which is what it is . 
pitt , an actor i normally loathe , is actually quite engaging as death . 
i believed his performance , and i could see why forlani's character would fall in love with him . 
i have to agree with roger ebert , though , who found it hard to believe that an entity that's been around for all time wouldn't know what peanut butter was . 
that has nothing to do with pitt's performance , of course , but it is a little distracting . 
hopkins gives his usual excellent performance . 
he's able to portray the angst of a man who knows he has very little time left , without making him an obnoxious whiner . 
and in her first major studio role , claire forlani is surprisingly good . 
she has a sweet tenderness that allows the audience to instantly root for her . 
so , " meet joe black " is a good movie hampered by it's ridiculous running time . 
had the film been cut by an hour or so , i have no doubt that i would be calling it one of the best movies of the year in this review . 

when quentin tarantino made " pulp fiction " , he was not only making the greatest film of the 90s ; he was also making what i believe to be the most influential movie of all time . 
but before you send me hate-mail for not giving that title to " citizen kane " , hear me out . 
much like " citizen kane " , " pulp fiction " has changed movie making forever . 
but i think the latter has had a tad more impact . 
 " pulp fiction " has actually ushered in a new era of film making . 
it has altered the way films will be viewed . 
 " fiction " has spawned so many imitations , i've lost count . 
sure , some have been excellent ( " bound " and " the usual suspects " spring immediately to mind ) , but any serious movie-goer recognizes " pulp fiction " as the original neo-noir of the 90s . 
in this review , i hope to change all the people's minds who have criticized it for it's excessive profanity and violence ( which , by the way , isn't really that graphic ) . 
the most brilliant aspect of tarantino's masterpiece is the screenplay . 
it is filled with so much classic dialogue ( the " quarter pounder with cheese " speech will go down in history ) , it should be required reading for any film student , if it isn't already . 
the story ( told in unorthodox non-linear format ) centers around three main episodes , all of which eventually intertwine . 
the first , titled " vincent vega and marcellus wallace's wife " , deals with a very loaded john travolta ( i forgot to mention the cool heroin shoot-up sequence ) taking mia wallace ( a star-making performance by uma thurman ) , his bosses wife , out on a date to a cool 50s restaurant called jack rabbit slim's . 
they talk for a while ( with the occasional " uncomfortable silence " ) , mostly about a guy called tony rocky horror . 
after giving marcellus' new bride a foot massage , he was thrown off a building and into a greenhouse , giving him a " speech impediment " . 
they also partake in a cool dance contest and end up twisting to the chuck berry classic " you never can tell " . 
i won't reveal the rest of the story , but i'll definitely say that it turns out to be a real bummer of a night , despite the cool trophy they win . 
the second story ( the least of the three but still four stars ) stars bruce willis ( proving he can play someone other than john mcclain in the " die hard " flicks ) as boxer butch coolidge . 
previously in the film ( like i said , it's told in non-linear form ) , he had made a deal with marcellus wallace that he would take a fall in a match . 
as it turns out , he not only doesn't take the fall , but he ends up actually killing his opponent . 
he takes a cab to his half-witted girlfriend's apartment , and to make a long story short , ends up going back to his own place to retrieve a gold watch , sort of a family heirloom explained by christopher walken in a hilarious flash-back sequence . 
on his way home , he bumps into ( literally ) marcellus . 
the two winde up prisoner to two hillbilly sex murderers , which results in the infamous " gimp " scene , which is very reminicent of the " squeal like a pig ! " 
scene from " deliverance " . 
the last ( and best , in my opinion ) of the episodes features john travolta ( again ) and samuel l . jackson ( in the best performance of any supporting actor ever ) as two slightly off-kilter hitmen trying to rid themselves of a bloody car . 
they seek help with a friend of jackson's ( played by the q-man himself ) , desperately in need of a stress ball . 
they end up calling a " cleaner " of sorts , played by the god among men harvey keitel , to help them out . 
in the end , the story brilliantly loops around itself , actually ending where it began . 
if you haven't already seen the film ( or even if you have , for that matter ) , i suggest you invest your money in a copy of the letterbox collectors edition . 
it features two previously unreleased scenes and the original film restored how it was originally meant to be seen . 
earlier today , i bought this version and watched it a few hours ago . 
what the pan-and-scan did to this movie is inexcusable . 
that version cut out , like , half the movie . 
what i have missed in the past years of viewing this flick is amazing . 
for instance , when travolta and jackson are in the apartment near the end , the widescreen version allows you to see that several things on the walls make crosses . 
this might help explain the divine intervention that takes place . 
just a theory . . . 
one of the things that pisses people off so much about this movie is that tarantino borrowed alot of scenes from other movies ( i . e . 
 " psycho " " kiss me deadly " , " deliverance " , etc . ) . 
but why shouldn't he ? 
it's not like he out-right and blatantly stole . 
give the guy a break . 
in case you haven't already noticed , i believe " pulp fiction " is a supremely excellent film and one of the best of all time ( up there with such greats as " casablanca " and " the godfather " ) . 
trust me , you will not see a better film come out of the 90s . 
and besides , it's one hell of a ride . 
note : if anyone knows how i could get a " bad motherfucker " wallet , please e-mail me . 
any help would be greatly appreciated . 

ingredients : possessed plastic dolls in love , plastic dolls having sex 
starring : jennifer tilly , voice of brad dourif , katherine heigl , nick stabile , john ritter 
synopsis : this is the fourth film in the chucky series , which debuted in the late 1980s . 
basically , chucky is a plastic doll that can walk and talk because it is possessed by the spirit of a slain murderer . 
in bride of chucky , chucky's longtime girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) dies and her spirit inhabits a female plastic doll through voodoo . 
dolls tiffany and chucky get married and embark on a quest to reach a cemetery in new jersey , where a mystical gem might enable them to be humans . 
the dolls stow away in the back of a vehicle driven by a newly eloped couple , so in the side plot , the couple suspects each other of being a murderer . 
opinion : bride of chucky is an attempt at horror with humor , but doesn't succeed . 
somehow , chucky moaning about mid life crisis , and how he should have gotten married does not make for a very scary chucky . 
and tiffany harping about mid life crisis , and how she should have gotten married does not make for a very scary tiffany . 
the suspenseless bride of chucky relies mostly on jennifer tilly's cleavage to keep attention during the first half , and on occasional puns to keep attention during the second half . 
the best that can be said about bride of chucky is that it is sarcastic . 

quentin tarantino seems to have a knack for giving his stars big careers . 
after his pulp fiction , many actors began receiving many offers for jobs . 
john travolta made his come-back and is now one of today's most bankable stars . 
bruce willis proved his acting chops and is now considered an actual actor . 
jackie brown , on the other hand , boasts quite a well known cast , except for the main lead : pam grier . 
most likely you have heard of her and seen her in films , but she's never really had a breakthrough performance ( her first film was in the roger ebert-written beyond the valley of the dolls ) . 
that is , until now . 
jackie brown is a highly anticipated feature film from quentin tarantino , whose last film was the huge hit pulp fiction . 
after mediocre acting jobs , tarantino returns to what made his name a household one : directing and writing . 
jackie brown is the result , and it is fantastic entertainment . 
despite excellent direction from tarantino , the cast steals the film , giving one good performance after another . 
pam grier gives a stunning performance as jackie brown , and she is supported by an incredible mix of talent--samuel l . jackson , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , and robert forster . 
more than likely , you will see a few of these names in the oscar pool come oscar nominations . 
describing a quentin tarantino film is very difficult , as you really can't say much or you spoil it for everyone else . 
i will tread lightly . 
jackie brown opens with an impressive shot of jackie brown ( grier ) in a blue outfit walking through the airport . 
the camera tracks along with her , and ends up revealing her occupation . 
we are also introduced to ordell robbie ( jackson ) , who sells illegal guns to interested buyers . . . 
for a hefty price . 
ms . brown carries the money from buyer to ordell in order to keep the cops away . 
however , an fbi agent ( keaton ) and a local l . a . cop ( michael bowen ) are out to find ordell and catch him while taking the money . 
they try to reach him through beaumont livingston ( chris tucker ) , one of ordell's buyers , but he mysteriously ends up dead . 
they try again through brown , but she is hesitant to admit to any wrong-doing . 
but after unknowingly carrying some drugs for one of ordell's friends ( fonda ) , she is caught and sent to jail . 
ordell pays her bail through a bail bond agent , max cherry ( forster ) , and then wants to find out what she told the cops . 
after she claims to have said nothing , she reveals the fact that she will tell them about ordell in order to stay out of prison . 
ordell doesn't like this , but they both come up with a scheme to throw the feds and cops off their track . 
this scheme seems to be going as planned , but unexpected occurances may or may not foul up their goal . 
revealing more would spoil the fun of jackie brown , and that's the biggest reason to go see a tarantino film . 
tarantino seems to have a fascination with hitmen and unusual predicaments ( and slang terms ) , but they are always done very well and believably . 
his hitmen are normally cruel , but pleasant , in that nasty sort of way . 
they talk like normal people , except for when doing business , and they are rude to their girlfriends . 
of course , this is a tarantino film , and you know you can expect some awkward situations to arise . 
and perhaps the biggest flaw with jackie brown is the slow middle section in which the pace begins to drop . 
of course , tarantino fixes this by moving onto the climax of the film , adding a lot of his reservoir dogs-style storytelling to it . 
things are told from one person's perspective , and then from another , and then from another , each time learning more and more . 
this all leads up to a very interesting conclusion , which decides who is on whose side . 
on the technical side of jackie brown , quentin tarantino directs it with the same style as he did with his 1994 film . 
however , this time around it isn't as nearly as impressive or original . 
the writing , on the other hand , is quite good , although i do find tarantino's use of slang terms offensive . 
the story jumps back and forth in time as in pulp fiction , but it's much more easy to understand . 
his previous film needed a second viewing in order to understand the time differentiation , but jackie brown is very simply to follow , especially considering that the time is given during the " leaps " in time . 
perhaps this is a result of the screenplay being written from the novel " rum punch " by elmore leonard . 
the dialogue is pretty much intelligent , and all the characters are fully realized . 
the cinematography is very well done by guillermo navarro ( who has worked with tarantino on previous films ) and the editing is very good . 
and as with pulp fiction , the music is a highlight , bringing back memorable songs from the 70s and 80s . 
the acting side of jackie brown is unforgettable . 
the performances are incredibly rich , with hidden meaning behind every characters' actions . 
nothing is quite as it seems , and you can't really tell which side one person is on . 
the real treat , of course , is pam grier who gives an astonishing performance as jackie brown . 
her poor living conditions are superceded by her superior wits , which play an important role in the film . 
watching grieg , i could tell what was going through her mind , even if i didn't know what she was thinking . 
her face portrays a lot of emotion that you can tell when she is sad , happy , or in deep thought . 
bridget fonda gives a very good performance as a druggie couch potato . 
i didn't even realize it was fonda until i saw her name in the final credits ( her performance actually reminded me of heather graham's in boogie nights ) . 
michael keaton comes across very well , as does michael bowen . 
chris tucker has a small , but effective performance . 
samuel l . jackson is very good , but it seems to me that he was replaying his jules winnfield character from pulp fiction ( although much less cynical ) . 
but no matter . . . 
jackson is very strong in his role . 
robert de niro is actually a little annoying at times , but overall he does a good job as one of ordell's perspective clients and friends . 
robert forster gives one of the best performances in the film , as he has one of the most developed characters . 
he is present throughout most of the film , and he holds his own against jackson and grier . 
jackie brown is rated r for language , sex , violence , drug use , and some offensive remarks . 
as a film by itself , jackie brown is a terrific piece of entertainment , with a complex plot to draw viewers in . 
however , one can not help but compare it to tarantino's pulp fiction , and expect great results . 
when compared , it comes up short , but not that short . 
it's a worthy effort , with terrific acting and some impressive writing from elmore leonard and tarantino . 
perhaps the best thing about jackie brown is the discovery of pam grier as a major hollywood actress . 
i can't remember seeing her in anything ( except for a small role in mars attacks ! ) , but hopefully she will get many more roles from this one . 
expect to see her name floating around the oscar nominations ( and hopefully she will even be able to nab one ) . 

 " the end of the affair " is a dark and moody romantic period piece , that neil jordan exquisitely writes and directs . 
although it's slow and sometimes confusing to follow , it still manages to give audiences a moving experience . 
based on graham greene's novel of the same name , the film mainly follows 3 characters . 
there's maurice bendrix ( ralph fiennes ) who has an affair with henry mile's ( stephen rea ) wife sarah ( julianne moore ) . 
sarah finds henry to be a bore , because well , he's just a normal guy . 
it's all work and no play with him . 
while maurice on the other hand falls madly in love with sarah , and would do anything for her . 
unfortunately the two break up . 
this is all witnessed in a serious of flashbacks , so that leads us to the present . 
it's a few years later , and they both still think of each other , so maurice hires a private detective ( ian hart ) to see what sarah is up too . 
while this may sound straight forward it's not . 
it's a deep dark tale of the jealousy that lies in the two men , unhappiness , and the ever lasting love . 
all this may sound like a drag , but it really captures your interest . 
with great performances by ralph fiennes ( doing another english patient type of film , only this movie is better ) and julianna moore who definitely deserves an oscar because out of all 5 films she did in 1999 , i believe this was the role , she had the most passion for , and you can see why . 
the story was also well written thanks to neil jordan . 
even though i didn't read the book , there's no doubt in mind that it was just as moving and descriptive . 
what's so moving about it you ask ? 
the tragedy of it all . 
it's not the typical romance , in which a guy finds a girl , they fall in love and all is well , this is more complicated and depressing . 
it really shows the complexity of a relationship , because nothing is ever perfect . 
everyone feels a different way and that is what tears us to pieces . 
back to neil jordan's script , it wasn't only red roses . 
there were times when i felt it too be a little slow , but most romances are . 
it also tended to be a bit confusing , especially at the start . 
it keep jumping around from past to present , so it obviously took awhile to get a grasp of things . 
also a notable was the superb direction by neil jordan . 
i'd have to say this is his finest achievement to date , because quite frankly i've never really found his work to be up to par . 
it just never did anything for me , until now . 
when it ends , it leaves viewers a little saddened , but provoked nonetheless . 
this is definitely one of the best films of 99 , and had some of the best acting , most notably by moore . 
not for all movie goers , but for those who are film buffs and want something of value . 

i must admit i'm going to be a bit biased in my review of the new romantic comedy serendipity , because that also defines how i met my current girlfriend . 
the magic and mystery of our fated encounter is also embodied in the quirkiness and freshness of the very funny and very romantic serendipity . 
i am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre , but something drew me to this film . 
maybe it was the casting of the underrated jeremy piven in a supporting role , and the hilarious eugene levy . 
maybe it was my hope that john cusack would get the redemption he justly deserves after such crap as high fidelity , con air , and pushing tin . 
but maybe it was because i feel as giddy as a school kid right now with this whole romantic thing currently in my life . 
the story of serendipity is simple . 
two people , john trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale , looking ever so hot ) , have a chance encounter over a pair of gloves -- with buck henry smack dab in the middle . 
charmed beyond repair , these two knuckleheads grab a sundae together at a caf ? called serendipity , talk about that irresponsible thing called fate and the avenues it leads people down , and spend a few hours at the local ice skating rink . 
but with each of them already involved with other parties , sara has john write his name and number on a $5 bill and she writes her name and number on a copy of love in the time of cholera . 
sara declares that if this " thing " -- let's just call it love -- is destined to happen , fate will bring them together in the future . 
years later and on opposite coasts of america , john and sara -- both engaged but still unsure whether they have found their soul mates -- decide to seek each other out to rest their doubts . 
what happens then is an enjoyable and often hilarious cat-and-mouse game with the fates - involving such items as mistaken identity , a graduate homage , john corbett as a freaky new age musician , and eugene levy as an irate and crazed salesman -- to find out if that " thing " was right after all . 
fortunately , first-time screenwriter marc klein has sketched strong , well-rounded , characters to propel a predictable and corny narrative . 
coupled with deft directing by michael chelsom ( director of the very unfunny town and country and the very funny funny bones ) and the use of time-lapse camera work to illustrate the passage of years -- the film comes off with genuine believability and sincerity . 
both piven and molly shannon make nice sidekick characters 
on the flipside , films such as you've got mail , made in heaven , and even high fidelity are the quiet inspirations for the film's main journey at hand . 
but it's what happens to the unexpecting characters left behind in the romantic wake after john and sara find happiness this is the most unsettling part of the picture . 

this remake of " la cage aux folles " features a gay couple pretending to be straight in order to pull the wool over the eyes of their son's future in-laws . 
the couple ( robin williams and nathan lane ) are about as archetypal , or as the less kind might put it ? stereotypical , gays possible . 
williams owns a nightclub featuring drag queens where his partner performs as the featured star . 
they live above the club in what could not possibly be mistaken as a heterosexual abode . 
williams is excellent as should be no surprise . 
gene hackman as right-wing potential father-in-law is refreshing in one of his few comedic roles . 
the real star is lane . 
his attempted transformation from one of the most obviously gay men in the world to the straight-shooting uncle is hilarious . 
perhaps it is a personal failing on my part , but the crying and screaming drag queen faux high drama just grates on my nerves and the first few minutes of this film are filled with it . 
luckily ( for me at least ) , it doesn't last long and the rest of the story focuses on the relationship between the men , their son and the deception . 
the question of stereotypes is a touchy one . 
these guys personify the homophobic gay image . 
you can almost hear the swishing . 
if you think that they are supposed to be representative of every gay man in the world , you'll be outraged . 
but if you can accept the view is that this is a movie about gay individuals , you'll love it . 
your choice . 

carla gugino graduates from high school and instead of staying in her small farming town , she goes to college in california . 
there she meets the residential advisor pauly shore , who is a city boy . 
when gugino goes back home for thanksgiving , she brings shore with her , and her parents ( lane smith and cindy pickett ) are less than thrilled . 
dan gauthier , gugino's boyfriend from high school , proposes to gugino . 
gugino isn't ready for anything like this so she makes up the story that she is engaged to shore . 
she and shore have to make it look like they are engaged while her parents try to make it end . 
forget jurassic park , cliffhanger , the firm and last action hero , son-in-law is the film to see this summer . 
son-in-law is a great romantic comedy that should please the viewers , especially fans of the wiez . 
when son-in-law is long gone and forgotten , the blockbuster summer films will still be playing and you will have a chance to see them then . 
this film could also make great video fare for those that are leery of spending seven dollars on it . 
nothing will be lost by watching it on a television screen . 
although the basic story line has been done many , many times before , the film is still fun to watch . 
the laughs are plentiful , especially when the wiez is around . 
the way some of the jokes are done are new , even though some of the jokes are old . 
there are also several new jokes that , at least , i haven't seen before . 
still , when presented right , even old material can be funny still . 
this film is just basically a light comedy that is great to see if you are in the right mood that doesn't contain much violence or any nudity that is definitely worth full ticket price . 
the cast for this film does an excellent job . 
pauly shore ( encino man ) is the star attraction of this film . 
he is great , and knows how to entertain the audience . 
pauly shore just seems to take over the entire screen when he is on with expressions and comments that are hilarious . 
this film would definitely not have been as good with anyone else in this role . 
carla gugino does a very good job as the farm girl gone city girl . 
she makes her character believable , on some levels , yet interesting at the same time . 
the person who played the grandfather ( mason adams , i believe ) also does a great job . 
the way he delivered his lines kept me laughing throughout the time that he was on the screen . 
patrick renna , who played gugino's little brother , was a little annoying , but no where as near as macaulay culkin , and for only part of the time , so i can forgive him . 
tiffani-amber thiessen ( a killer among friends , " saved by the bell " ) does a reasonably good job for the time that she is on screen . 
she shows that she may have a potential in movies if she can get out of the corny young adults programming on television . 
she wasn't given overly much to do in the film , but what she had , she does a good job with . 

much ballyhoo has been made over this new version of " lolita , " made in a time when one would think that a faithful adaptation of the infamous novel could be made , over its use of pedophilia , and as such , it's important to address it straight-forwardly , before any other ideals such as goodness and themes can be discussed , as this film has been in film limbo for a number of years , lying around in vaults san a distributor , and having critics waiting to either hail it a masterpiece or call it anticlimactic horseshit . 
when seeing this film , after all the hoopla , keeping in mind that there are people , namely me , who are fans of the novel , who have been eagerly awaiting this flick since its creation . . . well , 
you just have to wonder why no one really picked it up for distribution . 
what's even worse is that seeing this " lolita , " especially the first time and if you're familiar with anything " lolita , " is admittingly very anticlimactic . 
this is a real pity because when you really sit down to watch this film , ignoring all the crap that has preceeded it , it's really quite a film , perhaps the best film by director adrian lyne ( although , really , look at its competition : " flashdance , " " fatal attraction , " and " indecent proposal " ) , at least besides " jacob's ladder . " 
i've seen this " lolita " twice : the first time , i wasn't so blown away . 
it seemed overly dramatic and surprisingly unaffecting . 
the second time , not really thinking about how i've waited for what seems like forever to see it and how i'm seeing it on a tv set on a premium cable channel and not a giant movie theatre , it really affected me emotionally . 
the story itself is a surprisingly heartbreaking one , which is why it's such a good novel , and why this is such a good film . 
the story of a pedophile obsessed with a young 14-year old girl named dolores a . k . a . lolita is great because it's not trash for the perverted but because it's about human obsession with things that are out of one's reach . 
its protagonist , the comically-named humbert humbert , is not your average pedophile , but a seriously wounded human being who embodies how we are all destroyed by our sick obsessions and idosyncrasies . 
the character of lolita is almost a symbol of the forbidden apple in christian mythology , something that will destroy us but that we can't live without . 
these ideas are all worked into this film nicely , but done in a way that is not heavy-handed at all , but instead lyrical and emotionally devastating . 
the focus of this film , and the reason for making it , it seems , was to really penetrate the emotional depths of the novel and bring them to life on the screen in beautifully dramatic images , and scenes which are blatantly over-stylized . 
the tone of the book is a comical one , but it's also a tragic one , and humbert , telling the story from his perspective , blows every single thing out of perspective . 
humbert exists in a fantsy world of his obsessions and desires , and this reflects the way the entire film has been designed . 
we get a sense that perhaps it's by doing this that humbert has really trapped himself into a fate that will ultimately leave him haggard and destroyed . 
he weeps uncontrollably and never lets himself get over his original 14-year-old love , and allows himself to embody her as lolita . 
he lets his feelings for her navigate all his decisions , and by the end , he has nothing but overly-dramatic feelings for her . 
the story recognizes the extreme of this , almost out of a test , seeing if the readers will really sympathize with someone who is socially deemed a pervert , and one almost wonders while reading the book if the author , vladimir nabokov , wrote the book as a means to bring into focus his own sick obsessions , and perhaps bring them to peace . 
the weirdest thing about this film is that by the end , when humbert has reached the finale of his obsessional journey , we can easily sympathize and even identify with him . 
the opening and final images of the film are the same , and who hasn't done a similar action , that is wandering about without any sense of reality or anything else but a deep sadness in us ? 
this is the second time the novel has been adapted for the screen , the first time being filmed in - shock - 1962 , by stanley kubrick , who couldn't possibly have brought the novel to the screen with as much faithfulness as lyne has been able to do , but did the next best thing : he economized for everything and came up with a droll black comedy about obsession in general . 
in that film , he used the traps of society as benefits . 
the studio demanded the final scene , that of a heinous murder , come first in the film so to portray humbert first as a murderer and second as a pedophile . . . and 
when you see it , it gives the film depth of a man trapped by obsession . 
the censors wouldn't allow anymore than a couple glances and subtle dialogue to show the , um , relationship between humbert and lolita , so kubrick decided to play it as comedy , but still allow the tragedy to seep through . 
looking at these two versions , especially after reading the novel ( and we all know that when we've read a novel and see a film adaptation , we are bound to be angered by any size differences ) , it's really impossible to compare them . 
they both go for different things , and one has a lot more room to be as sexually frank as the novel was . 
and although it's true that several scenes are similar , and are thus up for comparison , overall it's unfair to say which one is better and which one is worse . 
i have never been one for saying the level of greatness of a film adaptation of a novel is deemed by how faithful it is , and i won't say that here . 
however , this film is pretty amazing , mostly because hey , i loved the book , and this film nearly reminded me of it . 
it doesn't have nearly as much wit ( a couple comical scenes , and even a lot of good chuckles , but just not totally witty ) , but it does have the same emotional toll that the novel had . 
some of that is in the casting of the two leads . 
jeremy irons , with his deep , soft british voice and gentle look , is an amazing humbert . 
he's droll in a very unique way , and , well , no one can look distraught the way he does . 
he brings a wonderful sympathy to the role that goes beyond pathos and really comes up as being easy to identify with the audience . 
and when he looks at lolita with love , and she looks at him with lust , you know that he's her prisoner for as long as he lives . 
and dominique swain , who plays the title character , is rather incredible . 
she pulls off the tough role even better than sue lyon did in the original , wonderfully balancing the qualities of seduction , bratiness , and self-centeredness that marks the character . 
it's easy to see why she surrenders to humbert : she loves the attention , and knows that she can have her way with him at any time . 
when he denies her something , she blackmails him effortlessly ( a scene involving a rocking chair and a little foot action is damn near classic ) , and when he stands up to her , she weeps and runs away , leaving humbert to follow her . 
there are two other minor characters in the film , one who's a road block in the beginning , and the other who's a reappearing threat to the relationship . 
the former is charlotte , lolita's mother , played by melanie griffith . 
in the book , charlotte is a monster of a woman : overbearing , constantly scolding her child , overly-religious , and ultimately selfish . 
and she's the one obstacle humbert has to overcome to obtain his goal , at least in the beginning . 
as played by shelly winters in the original , she represented all these qualities ; as played by griffith here , she's about half of them . 
it's annoying to watch a film and play a game where you try to see who could have done the role way better than the one on screen without mentioning the actor who played them first . 
and even though griffith is not really bad , persay , she's nothing more . 
the other is clare quilty , the writer who is also trying to seduce lolita , and succeeds , but at a price . 
langella takes a totally different direction than the one peter sellars took in the original . 
quilty was a comic character in the original : a threat in the form of many forms , popping in states of rambling , german , proning , and eventually drunk . 
langella takes the other route , allowing all of the creepiness to be unearthed , and the result is a character who exists in shadows and low shots , and who meets a wonderfully ironic ending , the exact opposite of what we thought of him . 
as you can see , most of these are not improvements or mistakes done on the part of lyne and his screenwriter , stephen schiff , but just parts of a whole new look at the novel , at least cinema-wise . 
this version is beautiful , and perpetually saddening . 
the camera movements are stylized , and each shot is breathtakingly rich . 
the acting is for the most part wonderful , and when we watch it , we really get a sense that for humbert , who is telling the story , the only two people on earth most of the time were humbert and lolita . 
more importantly , it takes us right up the brink of emotion , then jumps right over it . 
by the end , with humbert sadly driving recklessly in his car , following what he says is the only part of his life he doesn't regret , we feel that we all lose to something we can never have . 

 " easely one of the worst films of the year . . " 
with the millenium just around the corner , hollywood is playing with our insecurities concerning the biggest event of this century . 
this time it is arnold schwartzenegger against the powers of evil . 
the result is somewhat predictable . 
i didn't have high hopes about arnold's " much anticipated " return to the big screen . 
schwarzenegger fans will probably be pleased , action lovers won't be bored , and the catholic league will be angry . 
everyone else will see 'end of days' for what it is : a deliciously bad motion picture . 
think of it as hollywood's own y2k bug . 
did you know that if you turn the three diabolical numbers 666 you'll get 999 , as in 1999 ? 
yes , you better believe it . . satan is here on earth , working on his latest project -- the end of days . 
this time it is gabriel burne who gets the privilege to play lucifer and , although not al pacino , he is fun to behold . 
he coolly strolls through manhattan in the borrowed body of an investment banker , wreaking , as they say , havoc . 
the way it works is he smirks and something explodes . 
before the stroke of the new millennium he's got to find and impregnate a certain woman in order to climb out from under a heavenly curse as spelled out in the book of revelations . 
only schwarzenegger's cop attached to an anti-terrorist unit can stop him . 
films like this has one serious weakness -- logic . 
no matter how you twist the " plot " , you'll find it incredibly stupid ( even for a schwartzenegger movie ! ) . 
the incredible fact is that such directors never learn . 
after thousands of headless productions , this theme has become one big clich ? . 
here the devil looks more like a sex addicted maniac that has just got out of a mental institution . 
he is walking around n . y . , blowing everything up and killing everyone that gets in a 5 meter radius . 
all he wants is the girl , that is somehow special . 
but schwartzenegger is more clever than he looks , he has hidden her in a church , where satan dare not enter . 
so the evil one is forced to seduce the good cop in order to get the valuable information : " you can have your wife and daughter back . . i 
can give you happiness that you can only dream of . . just 
give me the address . . " 
indeed with a script like that , you could make a wonderful parody , but unfortunately the director is taking this subject very seriously , attempting to create a provoking an dramatic thriller . 
and for you who have awaited arnold swartzenegger's comeback , will not be very satisfied . 
we've not seen him in a while . 
that's because he didn't have a worthy opponent . 
he has battled nuclear terrorists on earth and power mad conspirators on mars . 
he has taken on alien predators in the darkest reaches of the jungle and morphing cyberkillers that seemingly nothing can stop . 
so , after all those fights , what's left for arnold schwarzenegger ? 
how about satan ? 
in my opinion , he has never quite overcome his first role as the deadly robot in cameron's " terminator " . 
and that is schwartzenegger's strength -- muscles and no emotions . 
here he tries to achieve an artistic level , moving towards the oscar . 
this is called " an adult turn " if successful and " a flop " if unsuccessful . 
make a wild guess ! 
his character has lost his wife and daughter and has serious drinking problems . 
this requires at least some acting skills . 
regrettably , the only thing convincing about old arnold is his muscles . 
the rest of the cast are struggling with their so called characters . 
the movie is otherwise technically impressive , with a solid cinematography and fine lighting . 
but the movie doesn't serve neither as a serious thriller ( because of its stupidity ) nor as comic entertainment ( because of its serious tone ) . 
the only real comic relief in this film is when swartzenegger tries to cry . 
the action sequences are all recycled and the effects are everything but spectacular . 
so i really have a hard time recommending this film to somebody . 
unless you are a die-hard schwartzenegger fan , stay away . 
as for schwarzenegger , he'll be back . 

cradle will rock is the latest effort from director/actor tim robbins . 
while he may have had an oscar worthy film back in 1995 ( dead man walking ) , he gets a little overconfident and sloppy here . 
the story is confusing , and filled with many subplots , so i'll try my best and explain it as simply as possible . 
the film is based on a " mostly " true story about a federal theater in the 1930s , that produced a play ( the cradle will rock ) that apparently was offensive to some , so the government shuts it down . 
it's during the time of the depression , and all this theater wants to do is entertain and cheer up those who do not have jobs , or are poor . 
between this conflict lies what seems like 10 subplots , about those who work in theater , or those associated . 
also along the way are some other messages mashed together to create an even more overwhelming experience . 
tim robbin's just keeps piling on political views , and characters , that we just give up on the film , or in some cases walk out . 
for robbin's it may be a nice achievement , but to me it seemed more like a friendly get together with slightly more sophisticated dialogue , and fancy outfits . 
i thought the main reason for seeing the film would be for the outstanding cast , unfortunately are all uninteresting , except for a few . 
let me recap what each important character does , so please bear with me ( it's the least you can do , especially if you were considering seeing this ) . 
i'll begin with those involved with the play . 
there's orson welles ( angus macfadyen ) who of course is the director of the play , the producer john houseman ( cary elwes ) , marc blitzstein ( hank azaria ) the writer of the play , emily watson , a woman who gets her break by playing the main part in cradle will rock . 
outside the play there's the : ventriloquist ( bill murray ) who wants a relationship with a federal theater clerk ( joan cusack ) , another subplot involving a painter diego rivera ( ruben blades ) who's unhappy that his painting is too be destroyed by nelson rockefeller because he feels it to be an outrage ( john cusack ) . 
there's a few other actresses and actors who have their own stories ( susan sarandon , philip baker hall too name a few ) but those that i mentioned , were the most significant to the story . 
anyway , most of these talented hollywood stars were completely wasted , except for emily watson , who does another great job , and one of my personal favorite actors john cusack , who always delivers through thick and thin . 
now although most of the film was weak to say the least , there were some nice moments and some involving subjects , but all this is overblown . 
sure the free speech segment was a nice feature , but not when it becomes repetitive . 
the whole film is like this , and it's basically nothing but a headache . 
on the brighter side , tim robbin's direction was masterful . 
his camera direction seemed reminiscent to the works of paul thomas anderson's latest magnolia , only smoother in my opinion , but even that can't make a movie that much better . 
although it has it's moments ( not many of them , but they're there ) , cradle will rock stays true to it's title , because the cradle rocked too far and tipped over . 

despite its exceedingly well-done visual effects , 1995's original species was one big hunk of sci-fi cheese , from the writing to the feeble performances . 
so , coming from such b-grade roots , its sequel's stunning ineptitude is not terribly surprising , yet at the same time it is . 
it would not have been difficult at all for the people behind species ii to top the hokey original , yet they have somehow managed to fabricate something just as bad , if not even worse . 
something is clearly amiss when the back door left open for a sequel in species--a sewer rat becomes not quite of this earth after eating a body part from the exploded alien/human hybrid sil--is never entered into ( perhaps that was left for species iii--though i'm not giving away anything when i say that this installment has an open back door of its own ) . 
the alien fun and games begin this time when a three-person astronaut crew returning from mars inadvertently carries within their soil samples deadly alien dna that eventually infects the mission captain , patrick ross ( justin lazard , late of cbs's short-lived soap of a few years back , central park west/cpw ) . 
this alien dna is not identical to that which created the original film's sil , but it's close enough , and upon arrival on earth patrick is mating like crazy , engaging in bloody sex with just about every woman he can find . 
meanwhile , scientist dr . laura baker ( the returning marg helgenberger ) has created a clone of sil named eve ( natasha henstridge again ) for research purposes . 
it doesn't take long for eve to sense another alien presence , which send her libido into hyperdrive . 
it's up to laura and her former partner , bounty hunter press lennox ( michael madsen , another returnee ) ; and patrick's uninfected shipmate dennis gamble ( mykelti williamson ) to find patrick before the in-heat eve does . 
 " this isn't the x-files , goddammit ! " 
exclaims one character in the early going . 
in terms of quality , he's absolutely right , but he's also wrong . 
the new alien first appears as an otherworldly oozing sludge that causes patrick's pupils to dilate once he's infected . 
looks and sounds an awful lot like the x-files's " black cancer " to me . 
but that's not the only source director peter medak and writer chris brancato steal from . 
species was already a ripoff of alien , but medak makes the cribbing much more blatant than the original's director , roger donaldson , did . 
human patrick is given a tongue that also has a tongue within itself , and his alien form more closely resembles the alien than eve's alien body ( which ironically was designed by alien designer h . r . giger ) . 
a large alien hive that our heros douse with a substance fired from large guns ? 
aliens sans flamethrowers . 
the visual effects were by far the best thing about species , and the sequel's effects crew at steve johnson's xfx inc . keeps that high-quality tradition alive ; no cheap-looking lost in space cgi here . 
after the effects , the original's best asset was the fresh presence of henstridge . 
however , medak and brancato have no idea what exactly to do with her for this installment . 
at one point she's called on to play alien " empath " ? la forest whitaker in the original , but for most of the duration she's holed up in a glass cell . 
by the time the big breakout so prominently featured in the trailer actually takes place , the film is well into its home stretch . 
so the rest of the time we are treated to patrick , played with little zest by lazard . 
one problem with the first film was that the deadly , horny , but innocent-at-heart sil was too sympathetic ; no such problem with patrick , who comes off as a cocky pretty boy before the alien takes control . 
the rest of the cast also fails to add much , but the writing can be faulted for that . 
helgenberger and madsen go through the motions , but they are already hampered by the clich ? d development that somewhere between the two films , the once-linked laura and press stopped getting along . 
williamson suffers the worst indignity . 
he tries his best to enliven the token african-american role , but how can anyone recite insulting , derivative lines such as " i'm gonna get african on someone's ass " and not appear ridiculous ? 
but species ii's worst crime is being a thoroughly uninteresting piece of work . 
at least the original featured plenty to laugh at--unaccountably awful performances by the otherwise fine actors ben kingsley and whitaker , and the sight of helgenberger's character performing fellatio on madsen's , for a start . 
but the filmmakers do not display any discernable effort at all , let alone the misguided effort that is required for something to reach the camp level . 
for all the blood and gore , nudity , and sex thrown in , species ii is , quite simply , a vapid bore . 

the 1990s produced two brilliant science fiction films . 
one was _gattaca_ . 
the other was _the thirteenth floor_ . 
just as _gattaca_ was overshadowed by the mighty _titanic_ , _the thirteenth floor_ was relegated to obscurity by _the matrix_ . 
however , _the thirteeth floor_ , though it deals with similar themes , is a much better movie than the frenetic , childish and improbable _matrix_ . 
a cutting edge computer scientist , hannon fuller ( played by the charming armin mueller-stahl ) , is murdered . 
his associate , douglas hall , ( craig bierko ) apparently framed and suspected by the police , enters into the simulated world they have created in order to unravel the mystery . 
along the way a beautiful blonde ( gretchen mol ) , more bodies , and a deepening mystery about simulated worlds complicate the picture . 
_the thirteenth floor_ unfolds slowly and telegraphs its punches , choosing to elicit the more complex emotional response of empathy and anticipation rather than the cheap one of mere surprise . 
the result is a movie that is a failure from two conventional points of view . 
first , its plot revelations can be foreseen if one has carefully followed its complex storyline . 
second and more seriously , it demands that its audience think and feel . 
no wonder it fell through the cracks . 
done in film noir style as a murder mystery , this is a relatively deep movie that functions on several levels . 
many audiences will simply be bewildered by it , rather than engaged , which is a shame , because this movie amply repays a little emotional and intellectual investment . 
i recommend a second viewing simply to get the flavor of the frequent ironic foreshadowing in the opening parts of the movie . 
despite its philosophical challenges , _the thirteenth floor_ derives its emotional force from the love story between jane fuller ( mol ) and douglas hall ( bierko ) , as well as the close friendship between douglas hall and hannon fuller . 
in that sense it is more akin to _gattaca_ than _the matrix_ , which , for all of its cute philosophical byplay , is an adolescent movie with no emotional depth whatsoever . 
the moment when jane fuller confesses her love for douglas hall is at once satisfying , wrenching and intellectually challenging . 
in its final moments the film even takes on itself , when david , jane's husband , who has come to enjoy killing , accuses her of being the sick one . 
although there is a victory for the leading characters , this resolution suggests a disturbing element of fantasy in jane , and thus a deep-seated character flaw . 
in fact , hannon fuller's activities in the simulated world , the behavior of jane's husband , and the effects of entering the simulation on douglas hall all hint at similar issues with those characters . 
this is not a film of good people beset from without by great evil . 
the tragedy is not in their stars , but in themselves . 
the major actors , all of whom are required to play two or even three roles , perform extremely well . 
bierko , who will be familiar as the psycho from _the long kiss goodnight_ , is outstanding . 
d'onofrio as whitney , who plays a pivotal role in support , also turns in a good performance . 
the lovely gretchen mol , whose elegance , integrity , and determination suggest bergman in _casablanca_ , does a wonderful job . 
her voice , however , lacks the necessary weight at times . 
this could be because she was given the worst lines in a movie whose major weakness is the script . 
some minor flaws , hairline cracks in fine porcelain , appear in places . 
there are one or two instances of jerky editing . 
the script takes the edge off the film's climaxes . 
the atmosphere becomes too claustrophobic at times ( yet , there is a clue there too ) . 
one wonders if even after two decades , _blade runner_ is still casting its long shadow over sci-fi films . 
one can see a group of suits in their suite , waving their hands imperiously at directors like the emperor in _amadeus_ : " make it more like_blade runner_ , you know , dark and rainy . " 
_the thirteen floor_ is that rare exception among hollywood movies : a , rich , emotionally satisfying , intelligent sci-fi movie . 
and yet , ultimately , it proves the suits right . 
for when good sci-fi is made , where is the sf community turning out in droves to see it ? 
if we don't support great sf , who will ? 

an 80-year old woman jumps enthusiastically on her couch , wearing tight-fitting leather , as she cheers on her favorite tv wrestler by calling his opponent a `pump-bitch' . 
two men messily eat fast food as their septic truck leaks raw sewage directly behind them . 
and roughly 17 people are booted in the crotch . 
welcome to `ready to rumble' . 
judging from the fact that potty-mouth adam sandler is the reigning box-office comedy champion , you realize -- albeit while shaking your head -- that yes , there is an audience for this sort of thing . 
ladies and gentlemen , i weep for society . 
mind you , when executed with style and comic ingenuity , jokes like an alarming bodily fluid mistaken for hair gel ( `there's something about mary' ) and a laxative-induced attack of explosive diarrhea ( `dumb and dumber' ) can be extremely funny . 
unfortunately , `ready to rumble' is not being helmed by the farrelly brothers , nor is it bolstered by a script that accommodates the viewer with anything even remotely clever or inspired . 
`ready to rumble' is built around the dedicated fan-base of professional wrestling . . . . 
which , in fact , sounded like a fine concept for a goofball comedy . 
but director brian robbins and screenwriter steven brill handcuff themselves , and limited to a stampede of asinine , humdrum bathroom humor , basically the only thing they manage is to evoke memories of pauly shore and `bio dome' . 
gordie boggs ( david arquette ) and sean dawkins ( scott caan ) take pride in being hardcore wcw wrestling fanatics . 
by day , they transport raw sewage . 
by night ( particularly on ? nitro' monday ) , they pay homage to their personal hero and savior - jimmy king ( oliver platt ) , the undisputed leader of the professional wrestling community . 
with two tickets to an upcoming nitro performance , gordie and sean are psyched about witnessing the king defend his title first-hand . 
but unscrupulous boxing kingpin titus sinclair ( joe pantoliano , sporting long hair and cowboy boots ) has other plans . 
sinclair is plotting to have diamond dallas page ( playing himself ) pummel the king into the tarp , thereby dethroning the dignified wrestler and embarrassing him in front of a bewildered auditorium full of fans . 
gordie and sean are shocked , rioting madly while arguing `this isn't even a pay-per view event ! ! ' 
they take it upon themselves to track the king down and supply the encouragement essential for their fallen idol to make a come-back attempt . 
along the way , you can expect a lot of sh-- jokes as well . 
you may find something to like in `ready to rumble' if a ) you are a rasslin' aficionado yourself , or b ) you are a dedicated fan of the lowest of low-brow comedies . 
i welcome low-brow humor with open arms - that is , if its fresh and resourceful . 
`rumble' is nothing but a sloppy , frightfully unfunny swamp land of misbegotten retardation . 
the first half-hour is the ultimate test of patience . 
luckily , the simple-minded events pick up steam , particularly with the well-choreographed wrestling action . 
director robbins showed a knack for capturing the brutality and excitement of football in `varsity blues' , and when in the ring , he does professional work . 
but the violence is too excessive . 
having the fake soap opera of wcw wrestling turn into a bloody skirmish brings back unfortunate memories of owen hart's tragic accident just last year , especially with one character's dive during a cage match . 
this is not something you want a comedy to be reminiscent of . 
outside the wrestling action , the lewd jokes and puerile sight gags bring new meaning to the term ? scattershot' , while the dialogue fluctuates in on the vulgarity scale of 1 to 10 , with brill's extensive vocabulary ranging from `diddly' to `boob' and so on . 
the final tally : i chuckled a few times , groaned a lot , and indulged in one spirited belly laugh involving martin landau as a geriatric wrestling coach who fights pretty impressively for 105 . 
casting-wise , `ready to rumble' is an odd duck . 
oliver platt as a champion wrestling figure ? 
he's perhaps a bit chunky , but fellow wrestlers acknowledge this in the ring by calling him `fatty' , which dampens the blow i suppose . 
rose mcgowan is fully disposable as a sultry wcw cheerleader ( `the nirto-est of the nitro girls , ' proclaims gordie ) , but extra pep is added with appearances by wrestlers goldberg , `macho man' randy savage and sting ( among others ) . 
wcw fans are sure to appreciate these . 
others . . . 
well , won't . 
i found merit in david arquette's bountiful energy as gordie , which brings me to my finishing . . . . 
ahhh . . . . 
`praise' for the film : in `ready to rumble' , i have discovered something even more annoying than arquette's `at&t' television commercials . 
now there's a low blow for you . 

one of these days , i'll make good on my promise never to rent another abel ferrara movie . 
king of new york and body snatchers notwithstanding ( and bad lieutenant is only fit for a single , emotive viewing ) , his exploitation flicks have fallen into a rut of hoary art-house trappings . 
it's a perfume-drenched , coke-addled visit to the seedy pornography shop , where beautiful models ( no , hookers -- no , courtesans ) usher you through the silk curtains . 
ferrara's only consistently smart move has been casting christopher walken over and over again , since walken can make a good movie great and a loathsome movie durable whenever he's onscreen . 
his 8-minute scene in the addiction is the saving grace of that otherwise abysmal , unwatchable , and pretentious failure . 
when he starts talking about his vampiric bowel movements , or questions whether lili taylor has ever read naked lunch , there's a much-needed dose of humor in an otherwise terminally unfunny affair . 
you know those gothic club kids who are too cool to smile and let you know they're actually having fun ? 
the addiction is that movie . 
walken , sadly , does not appear in the blackout . 
the central role of matty , a junkie film star whose lightning paced hollywood life among the beautiful people is inevitably leading to his destruction , is played by matthew modine ( who takes what he can get after cutthroat island ) . 
much like the protagonists of michelangelo antonioni's terminally bored cultural elite , matty is involved in a bitter pill " relationship " with high fashioned model annie ( at least i think she's a model . ) 
matty's lady is played by french actress b ? atrice dalle , arrested twice for cocaine possession during filming of the blackout -- not that you needed to know that , but it lends credence to the idea that ferrara's entire oeuvre has been filmed in a fucking blackout . 
no kidding . 
requiem for a dream has nothing on the junkie presentations seen in ferrara's movies and his controversial urban lifestyle . 
matty and annie struggle over her decision to have an abortion without consulting him . 
no doubt , he was off chasing the dragon . 
in his despair , matty indulges in a chemical induced weekend of debauchery , tooling around the streets of miami with video filmmaker mickey wayne ( dennis hopper , in full " dirty ol' man " mold smacking models on the ass and telling them to spread their legs . 
wider ! ) 
toward the end of the night , they pick up a teenage waitress also named annie ( sarah lassez ) , start shooting a hastily improvised sexual scene , then matty thankfully blacks out . 
something happened that night which haunts him throughout the rest of the movie , and it's exactly what you think it was . 
suffice to say , there's some confusion over whether he killed annie one or annie two , or anyone at all . 
the blackout is typical ferrara : no plot to speak of , plenty of raunch , and horribly vogue images of matthew modine downing a bottle of jack daniels and a beer while wrapping himself in a see-through curtain in his hotel room by the sea , by the sea , by the beautiful sea . 
cinematographer ken kelsch finds inconsistent glory in alternating gorgeous painterly sunsets with docu-style sleaze ( and we're back to dennis hopper leering at girls in bathing suits . 
 " yeah ! ! ! 
yeah ! ! ! 
arrrghhh ! " 
says mr . hopper . 
dirty old sod . ) 
it's compulsive viewing in a tacky sort of way , leading to a ridiculous climax where modine seizes control of his destiny . 
how's that for cryptic ? 
never fear -- ferrara finds time for some female full frontal nudity to remind us what he's all about . 
i can picture it now . 
 " take off yer clothes , kid -- it's essential to depict the inner maelstrom of my central protagonist , and you're his visual id . 
you're the soul , the heart , the bloodstream of the picture . 
take it off ! 
take it all off ! ! ! 
ha ha ha ! " 
friggin' vampire . 
yeah , you , ferrara . 
a final word about matthew modine : he's actually a fine actor when properly cast , but there's something too squeaky-clean in his demeanor . 
he's ideally suited for sarcastic men in tightly controlled situations , such as his private joker in full metal jacket or the time-bomb nebbish in short cuts ( who is every bit as superb as julianne moore in that famous scene , though no one seems to notice him ) . 
[he was in that scene ? 
-ed . ] 
here , he's asked to let it all hang out , sporting a three-day stubble and oily bangs . 
he throws around furniture like stanley kowalski , but it's somehow lacking . 
modine lacks the feral intensity of brando , entirely miscast in ferrara's flesh fair . 
better luck next time , matt . 
someday , you'll be forgiven for cutthroat island , which wasn't really your fault in the first place . 
maybe atom egoyan will find a place for you somewhere , and all will once again be well in your world . 

one of the funniest carry on movies and the third with a medical setting . 
the main story is about dr . james nookey ( jim dale ) who is disliked by his superiors , frederick carver , head of the hospital ( kenneth williams ) , and dr . ernest stoppidge ( charles hawtrey ) who seems to dislike everyone . 
they attempt to cause him as much trouble in the hospital as possible and all the blame is laid on nookey . 
carver learns of a possible job opportunity from wealthy ellen moore ( joan sims ) on a distant tropical island and gets nookey trannsferred there . 
when nookey arrives at this island , he meets gladstone screwer ( sid james ) who has lived on the island just about all his life . 
screwer is in possession of a wonderful slimming drug made from natural ingredients . 
dr . nookey returns with the drug to england and sets up a new slimming business with ellen moore's financial backing . 
however , nookey and moore face opposition from screwer who goes to england to cash in on the drug , and carver and stoppidge who want to know the ingredients to create a rival drug . 
the performances are all very commendable . 
sid james has a slightly ambiguous character to play this time and he excels in his role . 
kenneth williams , as usual , plays the unpopular and cunning head of the hospital . 
joan sims is entertaining as the wealthy benefactor and jim dale should really head the cast with his excellent portrayal of bumbling nookey . 
charles hawtrey plays an 'out-of-character' role as dr . stoppidge , the nasty and evil practitioner who wants to knock nookey off his perch . 
some critics have said that this combination of hawtrey and stoppidge does not work well , but i think that it at least gives hawtrey a new part to play instead of the usual dimwit characters . 
as a matter of fact , hawtrey is suitably cunning in the part . 
other regulars in the movie include hattie jacques as the matron yet again ( but this part is probably her most boring 'matron' ) and barbara windsor as nookey's love interest and unofficial 'women's lib' campaigner , goldie locks . 
both jacques and windsor play their parts well . 
patsy rowlands appears briefly as miss fosdick , and there are very small cameos from wilfrid brambell ( from 'steptoe and son' fame ) and peter butterworth . 
the jokes are mostly very funny , the story is quite appealing , and the regulars seem interested in what they're doing . 
although it is another medical carry on movie and some of the jokes are borrowed from previous movies , it still comes out on top ( it is the best medical carry on ) because of the above factors . 
a must-see carry on movie . 

and i thought " stigmata " would be the worst religiously-oriented thriller released this year . 
turns out i was wrong , because while " stigmata " was merely boring and self-important , " end of days " is completely inept on all fronts . 
it's a silly , incomprehensible , endlessly stupid mess . 
for a guy like me who grew up watching arnold schwarzenegger at his best , it's extremely disconcerting to see where the big man has ended up . 
for the first time in recent memory , an arnold action movie ( and " batman & robin " doesn't count ) is no fun at all . 
 " end of days " is a major stinker . 
the movie opens in vatican city , 1979 . 
some catholic priests have observed an ancient prophecy , which says that a girl will be born on that night that satan will have targeted for impregnation . 
if he impregnates her between 11 and midnight on december 31 , 1999 , the world will be destroyed . 
the pope orders protection of this girl , though some priests believe she ought to be killed . 
in new york , that very night , a girl is born to fulfill the prophecy . 
twenty years later , we meet jericho cane ( schwarzenegger ) , a suicidal ex-cop with a drinking problem .